Catelyn had never liked this godswood.
She had been born a Tully, at Riverrun far to the south, on the Red Fork of the Trident.
The gods of Winterfell kept a different sort of wood.
This was a wood of stubborn sentinel trees armored in grey-green needles, of mighty oaks, of ironwoods as old as the realm itself.
But she knew she would find her husband here tonight.
Whenever he took a man’s life, afterward he would seek the quiet of the godswood.
The Tullys kept a godswood, as all the great houses did, but it was only a place to walk or read or lie in the sun. Worship was for the sept.
For her sake, Ned had built a small sept where she might sing to the seven faces of god, but the blood of the First Men still flowed in the veins of the Starks, and his own gods were the old ones, the nameless, faceless gods of the greenwood they shared with the vanished children of the forest.
At the center of the grove an ancient weirwood brooded over a small pool where the waters were black and cold.
A face had been carved in the trunk of the great tree, its features long and melancholy, the deep-cut eyes red with dried sap and strangely watchful.
It was said that the children of the forest had carved the faces in the trees during the dawn centuries before the coming of the First Men across the narrow sea.
Catelyn found her husband beneath the weirwood, seated on a moss-covered stone.
“Arya is already in love, and Sansa is charmed and gracious, but Rickon is not quite sure.”
And winter is coming.”
The words gave her a chill, as they always did.
“Ben writes that the strength of the Night’s Watch is down below a thousand.
The day may come when I will have no choice but to call the banners and ride north to deal with this Kingbeyond-the-Wall for good and all.”
“Until this morning, no living man had ever seen a direwolf either,” Catelyn reminded him.
“There was grievous news today, my lord.
Jon Arryn is dead.”
In his youth, Ned had fostered at the Eyrie, and the childless Lord Arryn had become a second father to him and his fellow ward, Robert Baratheon.
When the Mad King Aerys Targaryen had demanded their heads, the Lord of the Eyrie had raised his moon-and-falcon banners in revolt rather than give up those he had pledged to protect.
“And Jon’s boy. What word of them?”
The message said only that they were well, and had returned to the Eyrie,” Catelyn said.
“Take the children.
Fill her halls with noise and shouts and laughter.
That boy of hers needs other children about him, and Lysa should not be alone in her grief.”
The king is riding to Winterfell to seek you out.”
It took Ned a moment to comprehend her words, but when the understanding came, the darkness left his eyes.
a direwolf dead in the snow, a broken antler in its throat.
“We should send word to your brother on the Wall.”
How many in his party, did the message say?”
“I should think a hundred knights, at the least, with all their retainers, and half again as many freeriders.
Cersei and the children travel with them.”
There was small love between him and the queen’s family, Catelyn knew.
The Lannisters of Casterly Rock had come late to Robert’s cause, when victory was all but certain, and he had never forgiven them.
The Lannister woman is our queen, and her pride is said to grow with every passing year.”
“There must be a feast, of course, with singers, and Robert will want to hunt.
I shall send Jory south with an honor guard to meet them on the kingsroad and escort them back.









