They set forth at daybreak to see a man beheaded, twenty in all, and Bran rode among them, nervous with excitement.
The man had been taken outside a small holdfast in the hills.
But the man they found bound hand and foot to the holdfast wall awaiting the king's justice was old and scrawny, not much taller than Robb.
He had lost both ears and a finger to frostbite, and he dressed all in black, the same as a brother of the Night's Watch, except that his furs were ragged and greasy. 
Finally his lord father gave a command, and two of his guardsmen dragged the ragged man to the ironwood stump in the center of the square.
They forced his head down onto the hard black wood.
Lord Eddard Stark dismounted and his ward Theon Greyjoy brought forth the sword.
His father peeled off his gloves and handed them to Jory Cassel, the captain of his household guard.
He took hold of Ice with both hands and said, "In the name of Robert of the House Baratheon, the First of his Name, King of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men, Lord of the Seven Kingdoms and Protector of the Realm, by the word of Eddard of the House Stark, Lord of Winterfell and Warden of the North, I do sentence you to die."
He lifted the greatsword high above his head. 
His father took off the man's head with a single sure stroke.
It seemed colder on the long ride back to Winterfell, though the wind had died by then and the sun was higher in the sky.
Bran rode with his brothers, well ahead of the main party, his pony struggling hard to keep up with their horses.
That was when Jon reappeared on the crest of the hill before them.
He waved and shouted down at them.
"Father, Bran, come quickly, see what Robb has found!"
Then he was gone again. 
He sent his horse into a trot.
Jory and Bran and the rest came after. 
They found Robb on the riverbank north of the bridge, with Jon still mounted beside him.
The riders picked their way carefully through the drifts, groping for solid footing on the hidden, uneven ground.
Jory Cassel and Theon Greyjoy were the first to reach the boys.
"What in the seven hells is it?"
Greyjoy was saying.
"A wolf," Robb told him. 
"A freak," Greyjoy said.
"Look at the size of it." 
Half-buried in bloodstained snow, a huge dark shape slumped in death.
Ice had formed in its shaggy grey fur, and the faint smell of corruption clung to it like a woman's perfume.
Bran glimpsed blind eyes crawling with maggots, a wide mouth full of yellowed teeth.
But it was the size of it that made him gasp.
It was bigger than his pony, twice the size of the largest hound in his father's kennel. 
"It's no freak," Jon said calmly.
"That's a direwolf.
They grow larger than the other kind." 
Bran tore his eyes away from the monster.
That was when he noticed the bundle in Robb's arms.
The pup was a tiny ball of grey-black fur, its eyes still closed.
His half brother put a second pup into his arms.
"There are five of them."
Father frowned.
"This is only a dead animal, Jory," he said.
Yet he seemed troubled.
Snow crunched under his boots as he moved around the body.
"Do we know what killed her?"
"There's something in the throat," Robb told him, proud to have found the answer before his father even asked.
"There, just under the jaw... 
His father knelt and groped under the beast's head with his hand.
He gave a yank and held it up for all to see.
A foot of shattered antler, tines snapped off, all wet with blood.
His father tossed the antler to the side and cleansed his hands in the snow.
Halfway across the bridge, Jon pulled up suddenly.
"What is it, Jon?" their lord father asked.
"Can't you hear it?"
"There," Jon said.
He swung his horse around and galloped back across the bridge.
They watched him dismount where the direwolf lay dead in the snow, watched him kneel.
A moment later he was riding back to them, smiling.
"He must have crawled away from the others," Jon said.
"Or been driven away," their father said, looking at the sixth pup.
His fur was white, where the rest of the litter was grey.
His eyes were as red as the blood of the ragged man who had died that morning.
