They set forth at daybreak to see a man beheaded, twenty in all, and Bran rode among them, nervous with excitement.
This was the first time he had been deemed old enough to go with his lord father and his brothers to see the king’s justice done.
Robb thought he was a wildling, his sword sworn to Mance Rayder, the King beyond-the-Wall.
The wildlings were cruel men, she said, slavers and slayers and thieves.
Finally his lord father gave a command, and two of his guardsmen dragged the ragged man to the ironwood stump in the center of the square.
Theon Greyjoy brought forth the sword.
“Ice,” that sword was called.
He took hold of Ice with both hands and said, “In the name of Robert of the House Baratheon, the First of his Name, King of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men, Lord of the Seven Kingdoms and Protector of the Realm, by the word of Eddard of the House Stark, Lord of Winterfell and Warden of the North, I do sentence you to die.”
He lifted the greatsword high above his head.
His father took off the man’s head with a single sure stroke.
The head bounced off a thick root and rolled.
It came up near Greyjoy’s feet. 
Theon was a lean, dark youth of nineteen who found everything amusing.
He laughed, put his boot on the head, and kicked it away.
It seemed colder on the long ride back to Winterfell, though the wind had died by then and the sun was higher in the sky.
Bran rode with his brothers, well ahead of the main party, his pony struggling hard to keep up with their horses.
He was of an age with Robb, but they did not look alike. 
Jon was slender where Robb was muscular, dark where Robb was fair, graceful and quick where his half brother was strong and fast.
So deep in thought was he that he never heard the rest of the party until his father moved up to ride beside him. 
“Are you well, Bran?” he asked, not unkindly.
“Yes, Father,” Bran told him.
“Robb says the man died bravely, but Jon says he was afraid.”
“What do you think?” his father asked.
Bran thought about it. “Can a man still be brave if he’s afraid?”
“That is the only time a man can be brave,” his father told him.
In truth, the man was an oathbreaker, a deserter from the Night’s Watch.
The question was not why the man had to die, but why I must do it.”
Yet our way is the older way. 
The blood of the First Men still flows in the veins of the Starks, and we hold to the belief that the man who passes the sentence should swing the sword.
“One day, Bran, you will be Robb’s bannerman, holding a keep of your own for your brother and your king, and justice will fall to you.
When that day comes, you must take no pleasure in the task, but neither must you look away. 
A ruler who hides behind paid executioners soon forgets what death is.”
That was when Jon reappeared on the crest of the hill before them.
“Father, Bran, come quickly, see what Robb has found!”
Jory Cassel and Theon Greyjoy were the first to reach the boys.
“What in the seven hells is it?” Greyjoy was saying.
“A wolf,” Robb told him.
“A freak,” Greyjoy said. 
“Look at the size of it.”
“It’s no freak,” Jon said calmly. 
“That’s a direwolf. 
They grow larger than the other kind.”
Theon Greyjoy said, “There’s not been a direwolf sighted south of the Wall in two hundred years.”
Bran tore his eyes away from the monster. 
That was when he noticed the bundle in Robb’s arms.
The pup was a tiny ball of grey-black fur, its eyes still closed.
“Do we know what killed her?”
“There’s something in the throat,” Robb told him, proud to have found the answer before his father even asked.
A foot of shattered antler, tines snapped off, all wet with blood.
“I’m surprised she lived long enough to whelp,” he said.
“Born with the dead,” another man put in.
“No matter,” said Hullen. 
“They be dead soon enough too.”
“The sooner the better,” Theon Greyjoy agreed.
He drew his sword. 
“Give the beast here, Bran.”
“Put away your sword, Greyjoy,” Robb said.
For a moment he sounded as commanding as their father, like the lord he would someday be.
“We will keep these pups.”
“Lord Stark,” Jon said.
Bran looked at him with desperate hope.
“There are five pups,” he told Father.
“You have five trueborn children,” Jon said.
The direwolf is the sigil of your House.
Your children were meant to have these pups, my lord.”
The count had come right only because Jon had omitted himself.
He had included the girls, included even Rickon, the baby, but not the bastard who bore the surname Snow, the name that custom decreed be given to all those in the north unlucky enough to be born with no name of their own.
“Easy to say, and harder to do.
If you want these pups, you will feed them yourselves.
“You must train them as well,” their father said.
“The pups may die anyway, despite all you do.”
“They won’t die,” Robb said.
“Keep them, then. Jory, Desmond, gather up the other pups.
It’s time we were back to Winterfell.”
Halfway across the bridge, Jon pulled up suddenly.
“What is it, Jon?” their lord father asked.
“Can’t you hear it?”
“There,” Jon said. 
He swung his horse around and galloped back across the bridge.
A moment later he was riding back to them, smiling.
“He must have crawled away from the others,” Jon said.
“Or been driven away,” their father said, looking at the sixth pup. 
His fur was white, where the rest of the litter was grey.
“An albino,” Theon Greyjoy said with wry amusement. 
“This one will die even faster than the others.”
Jon Snow gave his father’s ward a long, chilling look. 
“I think not, Greyjoy,” he said. 
“This one belongs to me.”
