He was an old man , past fifty , and he had seen the lordlings come and go .  
Will had known they would drag him into the quarrel sooner or later .  
He wished it had been later rather than sooner .  
`` Never Bran believe anything you hear at a woman 's tit .  
He had laughed about it afterward .  
Maester Aemon cold wind was blowing out of the north , and it made the trees rustle like living things .  
All day , Will had felt as though something were watching him , something cold and implacable that loved him not .  
Ser Waymar had been a Sworn Brother of the Night 's Watch for less than half a year , but no one could say he had not prepared for his vocation .  
`` Bet he killed them all himself , he did , '' Gared told the barracks over wine , `` twisted their little heads off , our mighty warrior . ''  
It is hard to take orders from a man you laughed at in your cups , Will reflected as he sat shivering atop his garron .  
`` Jorah Mormont said as we should track them , and we did , '' Gared said .  
He studied the deepening twilight in that half-bored , half- distracted way he had .  
Will had ridden with the knight long enough to understand that it was best not to interrupt him when he looked like that .  
`` Tell Jory me again what you saw , Will .  
Will had been a hunter before he joined the Night 's Watch .  
Mallisters freeriders had caught him red-handed in the Mallisters ' own woods , skinning one of the Mallisters ' own bucks , and it had been a choice of putting on the black or losing a hand .  
No one could move through the woods as silent as Will , and it had not taken the black brothers long to discover his talent .  
`` I got close as I dared .  
The snow 's pretty well covered it now , but I could still make it out .  
`` I took care she never saw me .  
When I got closer , I saw that she was n't moving neither . ''  
It steals up on you quieter than Will , and at first you shiver and your teeth chatter and you stamp your feet and dream of mulled wine and nice hot fires .  
Then it gets inside you and starts to fill you up , and after a while you do n't have the strength to fight it .  
They say you do n't feel any pain toward the end .  
First Men you go weak and drowsy , and everything starts to fade , and then it 's like sinking into a sea of warm milk .  
`` I never suspected you had it in you . ''  
`` I 've had the cold in me too , lordling . ''  
We found my brother frozen at his watch , with a smile on his face . ''  
Gared glared at the lordling , the scars around his ear holes flushed red with anger where Maester Aemon had cut the ears away .  
He pulled up his hood and hunched over his garron , silent and sullen .  
`` If Gared said it was the cold ... '' Will began .  
He saw it clear enough , now that the lordling had pointed it out .  
Men clad in fur and leather , let me remind you , with shelter near at hand , and the means of making fire . ''  
Will went in front , his shaggy little garron picking the way carefully through the undergrowth .  
`` Castle Black n't you feel it ? ''  
Which sound is it that unmans you so , Gared ? ''  
When Gared did not answer , Royce slid gracefully from his saddle .  
He tied the destrier securely to a low-hanging limb , well away from the other horses , and drew his longsword from its sheath .  
`` If I need instruction , I will ask for it , '' the young lord said .  
Gared 's hood shadowed his face , but Will could see the hard glitter in his eyes as he stared at the knight .  
It was a short , ugly thing , its grip discolored by sweat , its edge nicked from hard use , but Will would not have given an iron bob for the lordling 's life if Gared pulled it from its scabbard .  
Royce took it for acquiescence and turned away .  
Will threaded their way through a thicket , then started up the slope to the low ridge where he had found his vantage point under a sentinel tree .  
Will made no sound as he climbed .  
The great sentinel was right there at the top of the ridge , where Will had known it would be , its lowest branches a bare foot off the ground .  
A sword slashed at a branch as Ser Waymar Royce gained the ridge .  
He stood there beside the sentinel , longsword in hand , his cloak billowing behind him as the wind came up , outlined nobly against the stars for all to see .  
I wo n't have you hiding under a bush . ''  
He put it between his teeth to keep both hands free for climbing .  
He stopped climbing ; he listened ; he watched .  
Will opened his mouth to call down a warning , and the words seemed to freeze in his throat .  
He must have felt them , as Will felt them .  
The patterns ran like moonlight on water with every step it took .  
Will heard the breath go out of Ser Waymar Royce in a long hiss .  
He threw the long sable cloak back over his shoulders , to free his arms for battle , and took his sword in both hands .  
There was a faint blue shimmer to the thing , a ghost-light that played around its edges , and somehow Will knew it was sharper than any razor .  
Ser Waymar met him bravely .  
He lifted his sword high over his head , defiant .  
Yet in that moment , Will thought , he was a boy no longer , but a man of the Night 's Watch .  
They fixed on the longsword trembling on high , watched the moonlight running cold along the metal .  
Three of them ... four ... five ... Ser Waymar may have felt the cold that came with them , but he never saw them , never heard them .  
Ser Waymar met it with steel .  
Again and again the swords met , until Will wanted to cover his ears against the strange anguished keening of their clash .  
It steamed in the cold , and the droplets seemed red as fire where they touched the snow .  
The Other said something in a language that Will did not know ; his voice was like the cracking of ice on a winter lake , and the words were mocking .  
Ser Waymar Royce found his fury .  
he shouted , and he came up snarling , lifting the frost-covered longsword with both hands and swinging it around in a flat sidearm slash with all his weight behind it .  
Royce went to his knees , shrieking , and covered his eyes .  
Farewell beneath him , he heard their voices and laughter sharp as icicles .  
He stayed in the tree , scarce daring to breathe , while the moon crept slowly across the black sky .  
Finally , his muscles cramping and his fingers numb with cold , he climbed down .  
He found what was left of the sword a few feet away , the end splintered and twisted like a tree struck by lightning .  
Will knelt , looked around warily , and snatched it up .  
They set forth at daybreak to see a man beheaded , twenty in all , and Even Bran rode among them , nervous with excitement .  
Tell Robb thought he was a wildling , his sword sworn to Mance Rayder , the King beyond-the-Wall .  
It made Bran 's skin prickle to think of it .  
He remembered the hearth tales Old Nan told them .  
The wildlings were cruel men , she said , slavers and slayers and thieves .  
But the man they found bound hand and foot to the holdfast wall awaiting the king 's justice was old and scrawny , not much taller than Robb .  
He had lost both ears and a finger to frostbite , and he dressed all in black , the same as a brother of the Night 's Watch , except that his furs were ragged and greasy .  
Robb and Jon Snow sat tall and still on their horses , with Bran between them on his pony , trying to seem older than seven , trying to pretend that he 'd seen all this before .  
His closely trimmed beard was shot with white , making him look older than his thirty-five years .  
He had a grim cast to his grey eyes this day , and he seemed not at all the man who would sit before the fire in the evening and talk softly of the age of heroes and the children of the forest .  
He had taken off Did Father 's face , Bran thought , and donned the face of Lord Brandon Stark of Winterfell .  
Lord SANSA Eddard Stark dismounted and his ward Theon Greyjoy brought forth the sword .  
He took hold of Ice with both hands and said , `` In the name of Robert of the House Baratheon , the First of his Name , King of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men , Lord of the Common Tongue of the Seven Kingdoms and Protector of the Realm , by the word of Eddard of the House Stark , Lord of Winterfell and Warden of the North , I do sentence you to die . ''  
Bran 's bastard brother Jon Snow moved closer .  
Bran kept his pony well in hand , and did not look away .  
The snows around the stump drank it eagerly , reddening as he watched .  
He laughed , put his boot on the head , and kicked it away .  
He put a hand on Bran 's shoulder , and Bran looked over at his bastard brother .  
It seemed colder on the long ride back to Winterfell , though the wind had died by then and the sun was higher in the sky .  
Jon 's eyes were a grey so dark they seemed almost black , but there was little they did not see .  
He was of an age with Robb , but they did not look alike .  
Robb cursed and followed , and they galloped off down the trail , Robb laughing and hooting , Jon silent and intent .  
He had seen the ragged man 's eyes , and he was thinking of them now .  
So deep in thought was he that he never heard the rest of the party until his father moved up to ride beside him .  
`` Robb says the man died bravely , but Jon says he was afraid . ''  
Bran thought about it .  
`` Do you understand why I did it ? ''  
The blood of the First Men still flows in the veins of the Starks , and we hold to the belief that the man who passes the sentence should swing the sword .  
If you would take a man 's life , you owe it to him to look into his eyes and hear his final words .  
`` Father , Bran , come quickly , see what Robb has found ! ''  
`` Come , let us see what mischief my sons have rooted out now . ''  
He sent his horse into a trot .  
Jory and Bran and the rest came after .  
They found Robb on the riverbank north of the bridge , with Jon still mounted beside him .  
He was cradling something in his arm , while the boys talked in hushed , excited voices .  
Greyjoy was laughing and joking as he rode .  
Bran heard the breath go out of him .  
he exclaimed , struggling to keep control of his horse as he reached for his sword .  
He would have spurred the pony faster , but his father made them dismount beside the bridge and approach on foot .  
By then Jon , Jory , and Theon Greyjoy had all dismounted as well .  
Bran 's heart was thumping in his chest as he pushed through a waist-high drift to his brothers ' side .  
But it was the size of it that made him gasp .  
Theon Greyjoy said , `` There 's not been a direwolf sighted south of the Wall in two hundred years . ''  
Bran tore his eyes away from the monster .  
It nuzzled blindly against Robb 's chest as he cradled it , searching for milk among his leathers , making a sad little whimpery sound .  
Bran gave the pup a quick nervous stroke , then turned as Jon said , `` Here you go . ''  
Bran sat down in the snow and hugged the wolf pup to his face .  
`` I like it not . ''  
Snow crunched under his boots as he moved around the body .  
`` Do we know what killed her ? ''  
He gave a yank and held it up for all to see .  
The men looked at the antler uneasily , and no one dared to speak .  
Even Bran could sense their fear , though he did not understand .  
`` I 'm surprised she lived long enough to whelp , '' he said .  
`` I 've heard tales ... maybe the bitch was already dead when the pups came . ''  
He drew his sword .  
Bran looked to his lord father for rescue , but got only a frown , a furrowed brow .  
He could feel tears welling in his eyes , and he looked away .  
`` She 'll rip them apart when they try to nurse . ''  
It was strange to hear him call Father that , so formal .  
Bran saw his father 's face change , saw the other men exchange glances .  
He loved Jon with all his heart at that moment .  
Even at seven , Bran understood what his brother had done .  
The count had come right only because Jon had omitted himself .  
`` I am no Stark , Father . ''  
Their lord father regarded Jon thoughtfully .  
`` I will soak a towel with warm milk , and give him suck from that . ''  
I will not have you wasting the servants ' time with this .  
And the gods help you if you neglect them , or brutalize them , or train them badly .  
`` We wo n't let them die . ''  
It 's time we were back to Winterfell . ''  
It was not until they were mounted and on their way that Bran allowed himself to taste the sweet air of victory .  
Halfway across the bridge , Jon pulled up suddenly .  
`` Ca n't you hear it ? ''  
He swung his horse around and galloped back across the bridge .  
They watched him dismount where the direwolf lay dead in the snow , watched him kneel .  
Bran thought it curious that this pup alone would have opened his eyes while the others were still blind .  
She had been born a Tully , at Riverrun far to the south , on the Red Fork of the Trident .  
But she knew she would find her husband here tonight .  
Worship was for the sept. For her sake , Ned Stark had built a small sept where she might sing to the seven faces of god , but the blood of the First Men still flowed in the veins of the Starks , and his own gods were the old ones , the nameless , faceless gods of the greenwood they shared with the vanished children of the forest .  
They had seen Brandon Starks the First Builder Othell Yarwyck set the first stone , if the tales were true ; they had watched the castle 's granite walls rise around them .  
Here every castle had its godswood , and every godswood had its heart tree , and every heart tree its face .  
A thousand years of humus lay thick upon the godswood floor , swallowing the sound of her feet , but the red eyes of the weirwood seemed to follow her as she came .  
He lifted his head to look at her .  
She could feel the eyes watching her , but she did her best to ignore them .  
The words gave her a chill , as they always did .  
He ran it lightly up the greatsword as he spoke , polishing the metal to a dark glow .  
Catelyn had no love for swords , but she could not deny that Ice had its own beauty .  
It had been forged in Doom of Valyria , before the Doom had come to the old Freehold , when the ironsmiths had worked their metal with spells as well as hammers .  
The name it bore was older still , a legacy from the age of heroes , when the Starks were Kingslayer in the North .  
Ned lifted Ice , looked down the cool steel length of it .  
Afterward Maester Luwin will tell you they never lived at all .  
He slid Ice back into its sheath .  
Catelyn took her husband 's hand .  
I did not wish to trouble you until you had cleansed yourself . ''  
There was no way to soften the blow , so she told him straight .  
His eyes found hers , and she could see how hard it took him , as she had known it would .  
In his youth , Ned had fostered at the High Hall of the Eyrie , and the childless Lord Arryn had become a second father to him and his fellow ward , Robert Baratheon .  
When the Madness King Aerys Targaryen had demanded their heads , the Lord of the Eyrie had raised his moon-and-falcon banners in revolt rather than give up those he had pledged to protect .  
And one day fifteen years ago , this second father had become a brother as well , as he and Ned stood together in the sept at Riverrun to wed two sisters , the daughters of Lord Hoster Tully of Riverrun .  
`` Jon ... '' he said .  
I saved it for you .  
Even Old Grand Maester Pycelle was helpless , but he brought the milk of the poppy , so Jon did not linger long in pain . ''  
She could see the grief on his face , but even then he thought first of her .  
`` The message said only that they were well , and had returned to the Eyrie , '' Catelyn said .  
`` I wish they had gone to Riverrun instead .  
I know my sister .  
`` Your uncle waits in the Vale of Arryn , does he not ?  
Jon named him Knight of the Gate , I 'd heard . ''  
It took Ned a moment to comprehend her words , but when the understanding came , the darkness left his eyes .  
Catelyn wished she could share his joy .  
Black Dread coiled within her like a snake , but she forced herself to smile at this man she loved , this man who put no faith in signs .  
Ned rose and pulled her to her feet .  
`` Damnation , how many years has it been ?  
And he gives us no more notice than this ?  
The Lannisters of Casterly Rock had come late to Robert 's cause , when victory was all but certain , and he had never forgiven them .  
The youngest was still sucking at the Lannister woman 's teat the last time I saw him .  
Ned squeezed her hand .  
I shall send Jory south with an honor guard to meet them on the kingsroad and escort them back .  
She pulled her hand away .  
`` Why does he give us so much ? ''  
For nigh on half a year , they had lived in the magister 's house , eating his food , pampered by his servants .  
`` The magister knows that I will not forget my friends when I come into my throne . ''  
He had friends in all of the Nine Free Cities , it was said , and even beyond , in Horse Gate of Vaes Dothrak and the fabled lands beside the Jade Sea .  
Dany listened to the talk in the streets , and she heard these things , but she knew better than to question her brother when he wove his webs of dream .  
Viserys called it `` waking the dragon . ''  
Tell Khal Drogo has a thousand horses , tonight he looks for a different sort of mount . ''  
He studied her critically .  
Straighten yourself '' He pushed back her shoulders with his hands .  
`` Let them see that you have a woman 's shape now . ''  
He touched her hair , almost with affection .  
`` When they write the history of my reign , sweet sister , they will say that it began tonight . ''  
When he was gone , Dany went to her window and looked out wistfully on the waters of the bay .  
For a moment she wished she could be out there with them , barefoot and breathless and dressed in tatters , with no past and no future and no feast to attend at Khal Drogo 's manse .  
The Dothraki Kingsguard called that land Rhaesh Andahli , the land of the Andals .  
If he said them enough , the gods were sure to hear .  
`` Ours by blood right , taken from us by treachery , but ours still , ours forever .  
These places he talked of , Casterly Rock and the Eyrie , Tyrells of Highgarden and the Vale of Arryn , Elia of Dorne and the Isle of Faces , they were just words to her .  
Viserys had been a boy of eight when they fled King 's Landing to escape the advancing armies of the Usurper , but Daenerys Stormborn had been only a quickening in their mother 's womb .  
Yet sometimes Dany would picture the way it had been , so often had her brother told her the stories .  
Her brother Rhaegar Targaryen battling the Usurper in the bloody waters of the Trident and dying for the woman he loved .  
The sack of King 's Landing by the ones Viserys called the Usurper 's dogs , the lords Lannister and Stark .  
Princess Elia of Dorne pleading for mercy as Rhaegar 's heir was ripped from her breast and murdered before her eyes .  
Her mother had died birthing her , and for that her brother Viserys had never forgiven her .  
She did not remember Dragonstone either .  
By then only Dragonstone itself , the ancient seat of their House , had remained of the Seven Kingdoms that had once been theirs .  
The garrison had been prepared to sell them to the Usurper , but one night Ser Willem Darry and four loyal men had broken into the nursery and stolen them both , along with her wet nurse , and set sail under cover of darkness for the safety of the Braavosian coast .  
She remembered Ser Willem dimly , a great grey bear of a man , halfblind , roaring and bellowing orders from his sickbed .  
The servants had lived in terror of him , but he had always been kind to Dany .  
He called her `` Little Princess '' and sometimes `` Myrcella Lady , '' and his hands were soft as old leather .  
He never left his bed , though , and the smell of sickness clung to him day and night , a hot , moist , sickly sweet odor .  
After Ser Willem had died , the servants had stolen what little money they had left , and soon after they had been put out of the big house .  
Dany had cried when the red door closed behind them forever .  
They had wandered since then , from Braavos to Myr , from Myr to Archon of Tyrosh , and on to Forest of Qohor and Volantis and Lys , never staying long in any one place .  
The Usurper 's hired knives were close behind them , he insisted , though Dany had never seen one .  
At first the magisters and archons and merchant princes were pleased to welcome the last Targaryens knew to their homes and tables , but as the years passed and the Usurper continued to sit upon the Iron Throne , doors closed and their lives grew meaner .  
Years past they had been forced to sell their last few treasures , and now even the coin they had gotten from Mothers 's crown had gone .  
In the alleys and wine sinks of Pentos , they called her brother `` the beggar king . ''  
Dany did not want to know what they called her .  
Sometimes his hands shook when he talked about it .  
`` The jewels and the silks , Dragonstone and King 's Landing , the Iron Throne and the Seven Kingdoms , all they have taken from us , we will have it back . ''  
All that Daenerys wanted back was the big house with the red door , the lemon tree outside her window , the childhood she had never known .  
She was Illyrio 's favorite , a fair-haired , blue-eyed wench of sixteen who chattered constantly as she worked .  
It made her feel clean .  
The girl scrubbed her back and her feet and told her how lucky she was .  
A hundred thousand men ride in his khalasar , and his palace in Vaes Dothrak has two hundred rooms and doors of solid silver . ''  
She had always assumed that she would wed Viserys when she came of age .  
For centuries the Targaryens had married brother to sister , since Aegon Targaryen the Conqueror had taken his sisters to bride .  
Yet now Viserys schemed to sell her to a stranger , a barbarian .  
When she was clean , the slaves helped her from the water and toweled her dry .  
The girl brushed her hair until it shone like molten silver , while the old woman anointed her with the spiceflower perfume of the Dothraki plains , a dab on each wrist , behind her ears , on the tips of her breasts , and one last one , cool on her lips , down there between her legs .  
They dressed her in the wisps that Magister Illyrio had sent up , and then the gown , a deep plum silk to bring out the violet in her eyes .  
Dany glanced at her image in the silvered looking glass that Illyrio had so thoughtfully provided .  
A princess , she thought , but she remembered what the girl had said , how Khal Drogo was so rich even his slaves wore golden collars .  
He rose when she appeared and looked her over critically .  
Gemstones glittered on every finger , and his man had oiled his forked yellow beard until it shone like real gold .  
He rested his hand on the hilt of the sword that Illyrio had lent him , and said , `` Are you sure that Khal Drogo likes his women this young ? ''  
`` She has had her blood .  
She is old enough for the khal , `` Illyrio told him , not for the first time .  
When he released her hand , Daenerys found herself trembling .  
Boys , horses , sheep ... '' `` Best not suggest this to Khal Drogo , '' Illyrio said .  
`` Do you take me for a fool ? ''  
My apologies if I have given offense . ''  
He turned away and clapped his hands for his bearers .  
The streets of Pentos were pitch-dark when they set out in Illyrio 's elaborately carved palanquin .  
`` We wo n't need his whole khalasar , `` Viserys said .  
His fingers toyed with the hilt of his borrowed blade , though Dany knew he had never used a sword in earnest .  
Loras Tyrell , Ryam Redwyne , Darry , Greyjoy , they have no more love for the Usurper than I do .  
He looked at Illyrio anxiously .  
`` They are your people , and they love you well , '' Magister Illyrio said amiably .  
Dany had no agents , no way of knowing what anyone was doing or thinking across the narrow sea , but she mistrusted Illyrio 's sweet words as she mistrusted everything about Illyrio .  
And Lannister too , the Kingslayer , for what he did to my father . ''  
Nodding , he pushed back a curtain and stared off into the night , and Dany knew he was fighting the Battle of the Trident once again .  
It had been given to the khal by the magisters of Pentos , Illyrio told them .  
He had the copper skin and dark almond eyes of a Dothraki , but his face was hairless and he wore the spiked bronze cap of the Unsullied .  
Magister Illyrio growled something to him in the rough Dothraki tongue ; the guardsman replied in the same voice and waved them through the gates .  
Dany noticed that her brother 's hand was clenched tightly around the hilt of his borrowed sword .  
He looked almost as frightened as she felt .  
The khal must protect his guests , yourself chief among them , Your Grace .  
`` He has tried , Illyrio , I promise you that .  
His hired knives follow us everywhere .  
I am the last dragon , and he will not sleep easy while I live . ''  
Moonlight painted the leaves in shades of bone and silver as the guests drifted among them .  
Yet among them moved bravos and sellswords from Pentos and Myr and Tyrosh , a red priest even fatter than Illyrio , hairy men from the Port of Ibben , and lords from the Summer Isles with skin as black as ebony .  
`` The Usurper wanted his head , '' Illyrio told them .  
He sold some poachers to a Tyroshi slaver instead of giving them to the Night 's Watch .  
Dany found herself looking at the knight curiously .  
She was still looking at this strange man from the homeland she had never known when Magister Illyrio placed a moist hand on her bare shoulder .  
Dany wanted to run and hide , but her brother was looking at her , and if she displeased him she knew she would wake the dragon .  
Anxiously , she turned and looked at the man Viserys hoped would ask to wed her before the night was done .  
Her brother took her by the arm as Illyrio waddled over to the khal , his fingers squeezing so hard that they hurt .  
`` Do you see his braid , sweet sister ? ''  
It swung well past his belt , below even his buttocks , the end of it brushing against the back of his thighs .  
`` When Dothraki are defeated in combat , they cut off their braids in disgrace , so the world will know their shame .  
Her brother hurt her sometimes , when she woke the dragon , but he did not frighten her the way this man frightened her .  
`` I do n't want to be his queen , '' she heard herself say in a small , thin voice .  
`` Please , please , Viserys , I do n't want to , I want to go home . ''  
He kept his voice low , but she could hear the fury in his tone .  
They took our home from us ! ''  
He drew her into the shadows , out of sight , his fingers digging into her skin .  
he repeated , meaning King 's Landing , and Dragonstone , and all the realm they had lost .  
Dany had only meant their rooms in Illyrio 's estate , no true home surely , though all they had , but her brother did not want to hear that .  
With Khal Drogo 's army , that is how we go home .  
`` I 'd let his whole khalasar fuck you if need be , sweet sister , all forty thousand men , and their horses too if that was what it took to get my army .  
Illyrio is bringing him over , and he will not see you crying . ''  
Magister Illyrio , all smiles and bows , was escorting Khal Drogo over to where they stood .  
Let him see that you have breasts .  
Yet the huge man at the head of the column , flanked by two knights in the snow-white cloaks of the Aerys 's Kingsguard , seemed almost a stranger to Ned ... until he vaulted off the back of his warhorse with a familiar roar , and crushed him in a bone-crunching hug .  
Sixty and a half feet tall , he towered over lesser men , and when he donned his armor and the great antlered helmet of his House , he became a veritable giant .  
He 'd had a giant 's strength too , his weapon of choice a spiked iron warhammer that Ned could scarcely lift .  
Now it was perfume that clung to him like perfume , and he had a girth to match his height .  
Ned had last seen the king nine years before during Balon Greyjoy 's rebellion , when the stag and the direwolf had joined to end the pretensions of the self-proclaimed King of the Iron Islands .  
Since the night they had stood side by side in Greyjoy 's fallen stronghold , where Robert had accepted the rebel lord 's surrender and Ned had taken his son Theon as hostage and ward , the king had gained at least eight stone .  
Yet Robert was Ned 's king now , and not just a friend , so he said only , `` Your Grace .  
Ned knelt in the snow to kiss the queen 's ring , while Robert embraced Catelyn like a long-lost sister .  
Ned loved him for that , for remembering her still after all these years .  
They had been riding since dawn , everyone was tired and cold , surely they should refresh themselves first .  
She had said no more than that ; Robert had looked at her , and her twin brother Jaime had taken her quietly by the arm , and she had said no more .  
They went down to the crypt together , Ned and this king he scarcely recognized .  
`` In the south , the way they talk about my Seven Kingdoms , a man forgets that your part is as big as the other six combined . ''  
`` I trust you enjoyed the journey , Your Grace ? ''  
`` I hope they did not trouble you .  
`` You need a taste of summer before it flees .  
The fruits are so ripe they explode in your mouth-melons , peaches , fireplums , you 've never tasted such sweetness .  
You 'll see , I brought you some .  
Even in the streets , it 's too damn hot for wool or fur , so they go around in these short gowns , silk if they have the silver and cotton if not , but it 's all the same when they start sweating and the cloth sticks to their skin , they might as well be naked . ''  
Robert was breathing heavily by the time they reached the bottom of the stairs , his face red in the lantern light as they stepped out into the darkness of the crypt .  
He led the way between the pillars and Robert followed wordlessly , shivering in the subterranean chill .  
The shifting shadows made the stone figures seem to stir as the living passed by .  
Ned wondered if that meant those ghosts were free to roam the castle now .  
The first Lords of Winterfell had been men hard as the land they ruled .  
In the centuries before the Dragonlords came over the sea , they had sworn allegiance to no man , styling themselves the Kings in the North .  
Robert nodded silently , knelt , and bowed his head .  
The stonemason had known him well .  
He sat with quiet dignity , stone fingers holding tight to the sword across his lap , but in life all swords had failed him .  
Brandon had been twenty when he died , strangled by order of the Mad King Aerys Targaryen only a few short days before he was to wed Catelyn Tully of Riverrun .  
His father had been forced to watch him die .  
Ned had loved her with all his heart .  
Robert had loved her even more .  
Finally he rose , made awkward by his weight .  
`` Ah , damn it , Ned , did you have to bury her in a place like this ? ''  
`` She should be on a hill somewhere , under a fruit tree , with the sun and clouds above her and the rain to wash her clean . ''  
`` I was with her when she died , '' Ned reminded the king .  
`` She wanted to come home , to rest beside Brandon and Father . ''  
He could hear her still at times .  
Promise me , she had cried , in a room that smelled of blood and roses .  
The fever had taken her strength and her voice had been faint as a whisper , but when he gave her his word , the fear had gone out of his sister 's eyes .  
Ned remembered the way she had smiled then , how tightly her fingers had clutched his as she gave up her hold on life , the rose petals spilling from her palm , dead and black .  
They had found him still holding her body , silent with grief .  
`` I bring her flowers when I can , '' he said .  
The king touched her cheek , his fingers brushing across the rough stone as gently as if it were living flesh .  
`` I vowed to kill Rhaegar for what he did to her . ''  
They had come together at the ford of the Trident while the battle crashed around them , Robert with his warhammer and his great antlered helm , the Targaryen prince armored all in black .  
The waters of the Trident ran red around the hooves of their destriers as they circled and clashed , again and again , until at last a crushing blow from Robert 's hammer stove in the dragon and the chest beneath it .  
When Ned had finally come on the scene , Rhaegar lay dead in the stream , while men of both armies scrabbled in the swirling waters for rubies knocked free of his armor .  
After a quiet , he said , `` We should return , Your Grace .  
`` And if I hear 'Your Grace ' once more , I 'll have your head on a spike .  
When the king did not answer , he said , `` Tell me about Jon . ''  
Robert shook his head .  
`` I have never seen a man sicken so quickly .  
If you had seen Jon then , you would have sworn he would live forever .  
How does Lysa bear her grief ? ''  
`` I think losing Jon has driven the woman mad , Ned .  
I had hoped to foster him with Tywin Lannister at Casterly Rock .  
Ned would sooner entrust a child to a pit viper than to Lord Tywin , but he left his doubts unspoken .  
How can I do that if his mother steals him away ? ''  
`` I will take him as ward , if you wish , '' Ned said .  
She and Catelyn were close as girls , and she would be welcome here as well . ''  
Lord Tywin has already given his consent .  
`` I have more concern for my nephew 's welfare than I do for Lannister pride , '' Ned declared .  
`` I had planned to wait a few days to speak to you , but I see now there 's no need for it .  
Blind stone eyes seemed to follow them as they passed .  
`` You must have wondered why I finally came north to Winterfell , after so long . ''  
Ned had his suspicions , but he did not give them voice .  
You need to see it , Your Grace , to walk along its battlements and talk to those who man it .  
The Night 's Watch is a shadow of what it once was .  
He served as Lord of the Eyrie , as Warden of the East- , as the Robert 's Hand of the King .  
`` His son ... '' Ned began .  
`` The High Hall of the Arryns have always been Wardens of the East .  
Surely you owe , Jon that much for his service . ''  
He took his arm from around Ned 's shoulders .  
`` Jon 's service was the duty he owed his liege lord .  
Robert grasped Ned by the elbow .  
`` I am yours to command , Your Grace .  
They were words he had to say , and so he said them , apprehensive about what might come next .  
I want you at my side again , Ned .  
I want you down in King 's Landing , not up here at the end of the world where you are no damned use to anybody . ''  
I sit on that damnable iron chair and listen to them complain until my mind is numb and my ass is raw .  
Half of them do n't dare tell me the truth , and the other half ca n't find it .  
There are nights I wish we had lost at the Trident .  
Ah , no , not truly , but ... `` `` I understand , '' Ned said softly .  
`` I think you do .  
The offer did not surprise him ; what other reason could Robert have had for coming so far ?  
`` If I wanted to honor you , I 'd let you retire .  
I am planning to make you run the kingdom and fight the wars while I eat and drink and wench myself into an early grave . ''  
He slapped his gut and grinned .  
`` I bedded a fishmaid once who told me the lowborn have a choicer way to put it .  
He threw back his head and roared his laughter .  
The echoes rang through the darkness , and all around them the dead of Winterfell seemed to watch with cold and disapproving eyes .  
`` They say it grows so cold up here in winter that a man 's laughter freezes in his throat and chokes him to death , '' Ned said evenly .  
`` You helped me win this damnable throne , now help me hold it .  
My Joffrey Baratheon and your Sansa shall join our houses , as Lyanna and I might once have done . ''  
May I have some time to consider ?  
I need to tell my wife ... '' `` Yes , yes , of course , tell Catelyn , sleep on it if you must . ''  
The king reached down , clasped Ned by the hand , and pulled him roughly to his feet .  
He looked at the stone figures all around them , breathed deep in the chill silence of the crypt .  
They were all listening , he knew .  
As he filled his wine cup once more from a passing flagon , it struck him that this might be one of them .  
Jon 's brothers and sisters had been seated with the royal children , beneath the raised platform where Lord and Lady Stark hosted the king and queen .  
Down here on the benches , there was no one to stop Jon drinking as much as he had a thirst for .  
And he was finding that he had a man 's thirst , to the raucous delight of the youths around him , who urged him on every time he drained a glass .  
They were fine company , and Jon relished the stories they were telling , tales of battle and bedding and the hunt .  
He had sated his curiosity about the visitors when they made their entrance .  
The procession had passed not a foot from the place he had been given on the bench , and Jon had gotten a good long look at them all .  
His father helped her up the steps to the dais and led her to her seat , but the queen never so much as looked at him .  
His father had talked of him often : the peerless Robert Baratheon , demon of the Trident , the fiercest warrior of the realm , a giant among princes .  
Jon had to urge him on when he stopped to visit .  
He had the Princess Myrcella on his arm .  
Jon noticed the shy looks she gave Robb as they passed between the tables and the timid way she smiled at him .  
Sansa looked radiant as she walked beside him , but Jon did not like Joffrey 's pouty lips or the bored , disdainful way he looked at Winterfell 's Great Hall .  
They called him the Lion of Lannister to his face and whispered `` Kingslayer '' behind his back .  
Jon found it hard to look away from him .  
This is what a king should look like , he thought to himself as the man passed .  
All that the gods had given to Cersei and Jaime , they had denied Tyrion .  
Benjen gave Jon a warm smile as he went by .  
Theon ignored him utterly , but there was nothing new in that .  
Jon had started drinking then , and he had not stopped .  
His brothers and sisters had not been permitted to bring their wolves to the banquet , but there were more curs than Jon could count at this end of the hall , and no one had said a word about his pup .  
He told himself he was fortunate in that too .  
Jon rubbed at them savagely , cursing the smoke .  
He swallowed another gulp of wine and watched his direwolf devour the chicken .  
He stood over his prize and opened his mouth , baring his fangs .  
Jon looked up happily as his uncle Ben put a hand on his head and ruffled his hair much as Jon had ruffled the wolf s. `` Yes , '' he said .  
I believe I was younger than you the first time I got truly and sincerely drunk . ''  
Benjen watched Ghost with amusement as he ate his onion .  
That 's why I named him Ghost .  
We hear them on our rangings . ''  
His father was observing all the courtesies , but there was tightness in him that Jon had seldom seen before .  
`` You do n't miss much , do you , Jon ?  
`` Robb is a stronger lance than I am , but I 'm the better sword , and Hullen says I sit a horse as well as anyone in the castle . ''  
`` Take me with you when you go back to the Wall , '' Jon said in a sudden rush .  
`` Father will give me leave to go if you ask him , I know he will . ''  
Uncle Benjen studied his face carefully .  
`` Daeren Targaryen was only fourteen when he conquered Dorne , '' Jon said .  
`` Your Boy King lost ten thousand men taking the place , and another fifty trying to hold it .  
He tried to sit very straight , to make himself seem taller .  
`` I want to serve in the Night 's Watch , Uncle . ''  
`` You do n't know what you 're asking , Jon .  
`` You might , if you knew what it meant , '' Benjen said .  
`` Come back to me after you 've fathered a few bastards of your own , and we 'll see how you feel . ''  
He spat it out like venom .  
Suddenly he realized that the table had fallen silent , and they were all looking at him .  
He felt the tears begin to well behind his eyes .  
He pushed himself to his feet .  
He whirled and bolted before they could see him cry .  
His feet got tangled under him as he tried to leave , and he lurched sideways into a serving girl and sent a flagon of spiced wine crashing to the floor .  
Laughter boomed all around him , and Jon felt hot tears on his cheeks .  
He looked bored and miserable as he huddled there alone , but Jon would have traded places with him in an instant .  
Jon had seen an abandoned holdfast once , a drear place where nothing moved but the wind and the stones kept silent about whatever people had lived there .  
They were the last things Jon wanted to hear .  
He wiped away his tears on the sleeve of his shirt , furious that he had let them fall , and turned to go .  
Might I have a closer look at your wolf ? ''  
`` Canvas you climb down , or shall I bring a ladder ? ''  
Jon gasped , then watched with awe as Tyrion Lannister spun around in a tight ball , landed lightly on his hands , then vaulted backward onto his legs .  
Ghost backed away from him uncertainly .  
`` I believe I 've frightened your wolf .  
The wolf pup padded closer and nuzzled at Jon 's face , but he kept a wary eye on Tyrion Lannister , and when the dwarf reached out to pet him , he drew back and bared his fangs in a silent snarl .  
`` You can touch him now .  
He wo n't move until I tell him to .  
He cocked his oversized head to one side and looked Jon over with his mismatched eyes .  
`` I am Tyrion Lannister . ''  
It made him feel strange .  
`` You 're Ned Stark 's bastard , are n't you ? ''  
Jon felt a coldness pass right through him .  
He pressed his lips together and said nothing .  
`` Did I offend you ? ''  
Lannister studied his face .  
He was pleased by the dwarf s comment , but he tried not to let it show .  
`` Let me give you some counsel , bastard , '' Lannister said .  
`` Do tell my lord father .  
MY mother died birthing me , and he 's never been sure . ''  
When he opened the door , the light from within threw his shadow clear across the yard , and for just a moment Tyrion Lannister stood tall as a king .  
The castle had been built over natural hot springs , and the scalding waters rushed through its walls and chambers like blood through a man 's body , driving the chill from the stone halls , filling the glass gardens with a moist warmth , keeping the earth from freezing .  
The warmth reminded her of Riverrun , of days in the sun with Lysa and Edmure Tully , but Ned could never abide the heat .  
The Starks were made for the cold , he would tell her , and she would laugh and tell him in that case they had certainly built their castle in the wrong place .  
So when they had finished , Ned rolled off and climbed from her bed , as he had a thousand times before .  
The wind swirled around him as he stood facing the dark , naked and empty-handed .  
Catelyn pulled the furs to her chin and watched him .  
He looked somehow smaller and more vulnerable , like the youth she had wed in the sept at Riverrun , fifteen long years gone .  
I have no wish to be Robert 's Hand . ''  
If you refuse to serve him , he will wonder why , and sooner or later he will begin to suspect that you oppose him .  
Ca n't you see the danger that would put us in ? ''  
Ned shook his head , refusing to believe .  
He loves me .  
If I refuse him , he will roar and curse and bluster , and in a week we will laugh about it together .  
She had to make him see .  
Robert came all this way to see you , to bring you these great honors , you can not throw them back in his face . ''  
`` He offers his own son in marriage to our daughter , what else would you call that ?  
`` And Joffrey ... Joffrey is ... '' She finished for him .  
And I was only twelve when my father promised me to your brother Brandon . ''  
He stood staring out in the darkness , watching the moon and the stars perhaps , or perhaps the sentries on the wall .  
Catelyn softened then , to see his pain .  
Eddard Stark had married her in Brandon 's place , as custom decreed , but the shadow of his dead brother still lay between them , as did the other , the shadow of the woman he would not name , the woman who had borne him his bastard son .  
`` You told him I had left orders not to be disturbed ? ''  
Catelyn realized suddenly how cold it had become .  
With all he kept hidden in his sleeves , Catelyn was surprised that Maester Luwin could lift his arms at all .  
The maester waited until the door had closed behind him before he spoke .  
Only a carved wooden box , left on a table in my observatory while I napped .  
He had little patience for this sort of thing , Catelyn knew .  
He fingered the collar of his order ; a heavy chain worn tight around the neck beneath his robe , each link forged from a different metal .  
Catelyn could feel dread stirring inside her once again .  
`` What is it that they would have us see more clearly ? ''  
`` I found the true message concealed within a false bottom when I dismantled the box the lens had come in , but it is not for my eyes . ''  
`` Let me have it , then . ''  
May I approach ? ''  
Catelyn looked at her husband .  
`` It will not make us glad , '' she told him .  
When we were girls together , we had a private language , she and L '' `` Can you read it ? ''  
Maester Luwin averted his eyes .  
Ned crossed the room , took her by the arm , and pulled her to her feet .  
He held her there , his face inches from her .  
Catelyn stiffened in his grasp .  
`` Lysa says Jon Arryn was murdered . ''  
Ned released his hold on her arm .  
She knew it meant death if her letter fell into the wrong hands .  
Catelyn looked to her husband .  
She saw at once that Ned had reached a very different conclusion .  
Luwin plucked at his chain collar where it had chafed the soft skin of his throat .  
Catelyn 's heart went out to him , but she knew she could not take him in her arms just then .  
`` You say you love Robert like a brother .  
They waited , quiet , while Eddard Stark said a silent farewell to the home he loved .  
`` You must govern the north in my stead , while I run Robert 's errands .  
`` Maester Luwin , I trust you as I would my own blood .  
Teach my son the things he needs to know .  
Then silence fell , until Catelyn found her courage and asked the question whose answer she most dreaded .  
Ned stood , and took her in his arms , and held her face close to his .  
`` Sansa must wed Joffrey , that is clear now , we must give them no grounds to suspect our devotion .  
Sansa would shine in the south , Catelyn thought to herself , and the gods knew that Arya needed refinement .  
Let him grow up with the young princes , let him become their friend as Robert became mine .  
He was right ; Catelyn knew it .  
`` You know how Bran loves to climb . ''  
It came as no surprise to her , in the first year of her marriage , to learn that Ned had fathered a child on some girl chance met on campaign .  
He had a man 's needs , after all , and they had spent that year apart , Ned off at war in the south while she remained safe in her father 's castle at Riverrun .  
Her thoughts were more of Robb , the infant at her breast , than of the husband she scarcely knew .  
And if his seed quickened , she expected he would see to the child 's needs .  
Ned brought his bastard home with him , and called him `` son '' for all the north to see .  
When the wars were over at last , and Catelyn rode to Winterfell , Jon and his wet nurse had already taken up residence .  
Ned would not speak of the mother , not so much as a word , but a castle has no secrets , and Catelyn heard her maids repeating tales they heard from the lips of her husband 's soldiers .  
They whispered of Ser Arthur Dayne , the Sword of the Morning , deadliest of the seven knights of Aerys 's Kingsguard , and of how their young lord had slain him in single combat .  
And they told how afterward Ned had carried Ser Arthur 's sword back to the beautiful young sister who awaited him in a castle called Starfall on the shores of the Summer Sea .  
It had taken her a fortnight to marshal her courage , but finally , in bed one night , Catelyn had asked her husband the truth of it , asked him to his face .  
That was the only time in all their years that Ned had ever frightened her .  
`` Never ask me about Jon , '' he said , cold as ice .  
`` He is my blood , and that is all you need to know .  
And now I will learn where you heard that name , my lady . ''  
She had pledged to obey ; she told him ; and from that day on , the whispering had stopped , and Ashara Dayne 's name was never heard in Winterfell again .  
Whoever Jon 's mother had been , Ned must have loved her fiercely , for nothing Catelyn said would persuade him to send the boy away .  
She had come to love her husband with all her heart , but she had never found it in her to love Jon .  
She might have overlooked a dozen bastards for Ned 's sake , so long as they were out of sight .  
Jon was never out of sight , and as he grew , he looked more like Ned than any of the trueborn sons she bore him .  
Ned would do the boy no kindness by leaving him here at Winterfell .  
The look Ned gave her was anguished .  
`` You know I can not take him south .  
Catelyn armored her heart against the mute appeal in her husband 's eyes .  
`` They say your friend Robert has fathered a dozen bastards himself . ''  
`` Your brother Benjen came to me about Jon a few days ago .  
It seems the boy aspires to take the black . ''  
Let Ned work it out in his own mind ; her voice would not be welcome now .  
Yet gladly would she have kissed the maester just then .  
`` When shall we tell Jon ? ''  
I would sooner let Jon enjoy these last few days .  
She frowned down at them with dismay and glanced over to where her sister Sansa sat among the other girls .  
When Lady Catelyn had asked about Arya , the septa had sniffed .  
Arya glanced furtively across the room , worried that Septa Mordane might have read her thoughts , but the septa was paying her no attention today .  
It was not often that the septa was privileged to instruct a royal princess in the womanly arts , as she had said when the queen brought Myrcella to join them .  
Arya thought that Myrcella 's stitches looked a little crooked too , but you would never know it from the way Septa Mordane was cooing .  
She studied her own work again , looking for some way to salvage it , then sighed and put down the needle .  
Sansa was chatting away happily as she worked .  
Beth Cassel , Ser Rodrik 's little girl , was sitting by her feet , listening to every word she said , and Jeyne Poole was leaning over to whisper something in her ear .  
Myrcella said something then , and the septa laughed along with the rest of the ladies .  
Arya knew which prince she meant : Joffrey , of course .  
`` He told her she was very beautiful . ''  
`` He 's going to marry her , '' little Beth said dreamily , hugging herself .  
She did everything prettily , Arya thought with dull resentment .  
He 's very gallant , do n't you think ? ''  
`` Jon says he looks like a girl , '' Arya said .  
Sansa sighed as she stitched .  
`` He gets jealous because he 's a bastard . ''  
`` He 's our brother , '' Arya said , much too loudly .  
Septa Mordane raised her eyes .  
`` Arya and I were remarking on how pleased we were to have the princess with us today , '' she said .  
She rose to her feet , starched skirts rustling as she started across the room .  
`` Let me see your stitches . ''  
Arya felt tears filling her eyes .  
She pushed herself out of her chair and bolted for the door .  
Arya stopped at the door and turned back , biting her lip .  
`` Just where do you think you are going , Arya ? ''  
Then she whirled and made her exit , running down the steps as fast as her feet would take her .  
Sansa was two years older ; maybe by the time Arya had been born , there had been nothing left .  
Jeyne used to call her Arya Horseface , and neigh whenever she came near .  
If she did marry Prince Joff , Arya hoped for his sake that he had a good steward .  
She bounded to her feet as soon as she caught sight of Arya .  
If Mother had not forbidden it , Arya would gladly have taken the wolf with her to needlework .  
Nymeria nipped eagerly at her hand as Arya untied her .  
When they caught the sunlight , they gleamed like two golden coins .  
Arya had named her after the warrior queen of the Rhoyne , who had led her people across the narrow sea .  
Nymeria licked her ear , and she giggled .  
If she went to her room , they would find her .  
She wanted to see Robb put gallant Prince Joffrey flat on his back .  
She got up and ran , the wolf coming hard at her heels .  
They arrived , flushed and breathless , to find Jon seated on the sill , one leg drawn up languidly to his chin .  
He was watching the action , so absorbed that he seemed unaware of her approach until his white wolf moved to meet them .  
Ghost , already larger than his litter mates , smelled her , gave her ear a careful nip , and settled back down .  
`` I wanted to see them fight . ''  
Bran was so heavily padded he looked as though he had belted on a featherbed , and Prince Tommen , who was plump to begin with , seemed positively round .  
She spotted Theon Greyjoy beside him , his black doublet emblazoned with the golden kraken of his House , a look of wry contempt on his face .  
Arya judged that they had been at it awhile .  
Jon had their father 's face , as she did .  
When Arya had been little , she had been afraid that meant that she was a bastard too .  
It been Jon she had gone to in her fear , and Jon who had reassured her .  
He gave her a half smile .  
`` Any bruises they take in the practice yard must come from trueborn swords . ''  
Jon looked her over with all his fourteen-year-old wisdom .  
He took her arm to feel her muscle .  
Then he sighed and shook his head .  
They watched Bran and Tommen circle each other .  
She had n't , not at first glance , but when she looked again she found him to the back , under the shade of the high stone wall .  
He was surrounded by men she did not recognize , young squires in the livery of Lannister and Baratheon , strangers all .  
He makes his mother 's House equal in honor to the king 's . ''  
Besides , if a girl ca n't fight , why should she have a coat of arms ? ''  
Bran was standing over him with upraised wooden sword , ready to whack him again once he regained his feet .  
He gave the prince a hand and yanked him back to his feet .  
`` Prince Joffrey , Robb , will you go another round ? ''  
`` You got more swats than you gave , Joff , '' Robb said .  
I will permit you tourney swords , with blunted edges . ''  
Arya could see Robb bristle .  
`` Let me do it .  
`` Come and see me when you 're older , Stark .  
Arya covered her mouth in shock .  
Theon Greyjoy seized Robb 's arm to keep him away from the prince .  
Theon kept Robb locked in an iron grip until the princes and their party were safely away .  
Jon watched them leave , and Arya watched Jon .  
He bent to scratch Ghost behind the ears .  
When the spring thaw comes , they will find your body with a needle still locked tight between your frozen fingers . ''  
He messed up her hair again and walked away from her , Ghost moving silently beside him .  
Nymeria started to follow too , then stopped and came back when she saw that Arya was not coming .  
It was n't Septa Mordane waiting in her room .  
Prince Joffrey rode with his father , so Robb had been allowed to join the hunters as well .  
Bran had been left behind with Jon and the girls and Rickon .  
But Rickon was only a baby and the girls were only girls and Jon and his wolf were nowhere to be found .  
Bran did not look for him very hard .  
He thought Jon was angry at him .  
Robb was the one they were leaving behind , not Jon .  
His father would be the Hand of the King , and they were going to live in the red castle at King 's Landing , the castle the Dragonlords had built .  
It gave Bran a shiver just to think of it , but he was not afraid .  
Bran was going to be a knight himself someday , one of the Kingsguard .  
Old Nan said they were the finest swords in all the realm .  
The twins Ser Erryk and Ser Arryk , who had died on one another 's swords hundreds of years ago , when brother fought sister in the war the singers called the Dance of the Dragons .  
Two of the Kingsguard had come north with King Robert .  
Bran had watched them with fascination , never quite daring to speak to them .  
Ser Jaime Lannister looked more like the knights in the stories , and he was of the Kingsguard too , but Robb said he had killed the old mad king and should n't count anymore .  
Father had promised that they would meet Ser Barristan when they reached King 's Landing , and Bran had been marking the days on his wall , eager to depart , to see a world he had only dreamed of and begin a life he could scarcely imagine .  
Yet now that the last day was at hand , suddenly Bran felt lost .  
Winterfell had been the only home he had ever known .  
His father had told him that he ought to say his farewells today , and he had tried .  
After the hunt had ridden out , he wandered through the castle with his wolf at his side , intending to visit the ones who would be left behind , Old Nan and Gage the cook , Mikken in his smithy , 'Hodor the stableboy who smiled so much and took care of his pony and never said anything but `` Hodor , '' the man in the glass gardens who gave him a blackberry when he came to visit ... But it was no good .  
He had gone to the stable first , and seen his pony there in its stall , except it was n't his pony anymore , he was getting a real horse and leaving the pony behind , and all of a sudden Bran just wanted to sit down and cry .  
Instead Bran spent the morning alone in the godswood , trying to teach his wolf to fetch a stick , and failing .  
The wolfling was smarter than any of the hounds in his father 's kennel and Bran would have sworn he understood every word that was said to him , but he showed very little interest in chasing sticks .  
Robb was calling his Grey Wind , because he ran so fast .  
Sansa had named hers Lady , and Arya named hers after some old witch queen in the songs , and little Rickon called his Shaggydog , which Bran thought was a pretty stupid name for a direwolf .  
Bran wished he had thought of that first , even though his wolf was n't white .  
He had tried a hundred names in the last fortnight , but none of them sounded right .  
He raced across the godswood , taking the long way around to avoid the pool where the heart tree grew .  
The heart tree had always frightened him ; trees ought not have eyes , Bran thought , or leaves that looked like hands .  
Bran scratched him behind the ears , then turned away , jumped , grabbed a low branch , and pulled himself up .  
The howling chased him all the way up the tree , until finally he jumped off onto the armory roof and out of sight .  
The rooftops of Winterfell were Bran 's second home .  
Bran could not remember when he first learned to walk , but he could not remember when he started to climb either , so he supposed it must be true .  
In the older parts of the castle , the halls slanted up and down so that you could n't even be sure what floor you were on .  
The place had grown over the centuries like some monstrous stone tree , Maester Luwin told him once , and its branches were gnarled and thick and twisted , its roots sunk deep into the earth .  
When he got out from under it and scrambled up near the sky , Bran could see all of Winterfell in a glance .  
He liked the way it looked , spread out beneath him , only birds wheeling over his head while all the life of the castle went on below .  
Bran could perch for hours among the shapeless , rain-worn gargoyles that brooded over the First Keep , watching it all : the men drilling with wood and steel in the yard , the cooks tending their vegetables in the glass garden , restless dogs running back and forth in the kennels , the silence of the godswood , the girls gossiping beside the washing well .  
It made him feel like he was lord of the castle , in a way even Robb would never know .  
Even Maester Luwin did n't know that , Bran was convinced .  
He told her that he would n't , but she never believed him .  
Once she made him promise that he would stay on the ground .  
He had managed to keep that promise for almost a fortnight , miserable every day , until one night he had gone out the window of his bedroom when his brothers were fast asleep .  
Lord Eddard ordered him to the godswood to cleanse himself .  
Guards were posted to see that Bran remained there alone all night to reflect on his disobedience .  
They finally found him fast asleep in the upper branches of the tallest sentinel in the grove .  
`` You 're not my son , '' he told Bran when they fetched him down , `` you 're a squirrel .  
Bran did his best , although he did not think he ever really footed her .  
Since his father would not forbid it , she turned to others .  
Old Nan told him a story about a bad little boy who climbed too high and was struck down by lightning , and how afterward the crows came to peck out his eyes .  
There were crows ' nests atop the broken tower , where no one ever went but him , and sometimes he filled his pockets with corn before he climbed up there and the crows ate it right out of his hand .  
Later , Maester Luwin built a little pottery boy and dressed him in Bran 's clothes and flung him off the wall into the yard below , to demonstrate what would happen to Bran if he fell .  
That had been fun , but afterward Bran just looked at the maester and said , `` I 'm not made of clay .  
Then for a while the guards would chase him whenever they saw him on the roofs , and try to haul him down .  
It was like playing a game with his brothers , except that Bran always won .  
Most of the time they never saw him anyway .  
He liked how it felt too , pulling himself up a wall stone by stone , fingers and toes digging hard into the small crevices between .  
He always took off his boots and went barefoot when he climbed ; it made him feel as if he had four hands instead of two .  
He liked the deep , sweet ache it left in the muscles afterward .  
He liked the way the air tasted way up high , sweet and cold as a winter peach .  
Bran knew them all .  
Most of all , he liked going places that no one else could go , and seeing the grey sprawl of Winterfell in a way that no one else ever saw it .  
A long time ago , a hundred years before even his father had been born , a lightning strike had set it afire .  
Sometimes his father sent ratters into the base of the tower , to clean out the nests they always found among the jumble of fallen stones and charred and rotten beams .  
You could climb straight up the side of the tower itself , but the stones were loose , the mortar that held them together long gone to ash , and Bran never liked to put his full weight on them .  
That brought you up to the blind side of the First Keep , the oldest part of the castle , a squat round fortress that was taller than it looked .  
From there , if you really stretched , you could reach out and pull yourself over to the broken tower where it leaned close .  
Bran was moving from gargoyle to gargoyle with the ease of long practice when he heard the voices .  
He was so startled he almost lost his grip .  
They might glimpse his feet if he tried to swing by .  
`` Do n't you see the danger this puts us in ? ''  
I should have insisted that he name you , but I was certain Stark would refuse him . ''  
`` We ought to count ourselves fortunate , '' the man said .  
They were talking about Father , Bran realized .  
A few more feet ... but they would see him if he swung out in front of the window .  
`` We will have to watch him carefully , '' the woman said .  
I tell you , he means to move against us .  
He yearns to write his name large across the book of history , to get away from his wife , or both .  
Perhaps he just wants to be warm for once in his life . ''  
It 's a wonder Lysa was not here to greet us with her accusations . ''  
He tried to lower himself toward it .  
`` If she knew anything , she would have gone to Robert before she fled King 's Landing . ''  
She may grow bolder now that he 's safe atop the Eyrie . ''  
Whatever she knows , whatever she thinks she knows , she has no proof . ''  
`` I tell you , he loves me not . ''  
It was too narrow to land on , but if he could catch hold as he fell past , pull himself up ... except that might make a noise , draw them to the window .  
He was not sure what he was hearing , but he knew it was not meant for his ears .  
`` If you mean I see the same thing , yes , '' the man said .  
`` He betrayed one already , or have you forgotten ? ''  
`` Oh , I do n't deny he 's loyal to Robert , that 's obvious .  
He wanted nothing so much as to go back the way he had come , to find his brothers .  
He had to get closer , Bran realized .  
Bran pulled himself up , climbed over the gargoyle , crawled out onto the roof .  
He moved across the roof to the next gargoyle , right above the window of the room where they were talking .  
Bran sat astride the gargoyle , tightened his legs around it , and swung himself around , upside down .  
He hung by his legs and slowly stretched his head down toward the window .  
Bran could not tell who they were .  
The man 's back was to him , and his body screened the woman from view as he pushed her up against a wall .  
Bran realized they were kissing .  
The man had a hand down between her legs , and he must have been hurting her there , because the woman started to moan , low in her throat .  
Oh , please ... '' But her voice was low and weak , and she did not push him away .  
Her hands buried themselves in his hair , his tangled golden hair , and pulled his face down to her breast .  
Bran saw her face .  
Her golden hair swung from side to side as her head moved back and forth , but still he recognized the queen .  
Bran tried to pull himself up , bending double as he reached for the gargoyle .  
He shot out a hand , grabbed for the ledge , lost it , caught it again with his other hand .  
And now Bran recognized the man beside her .  
`` He saw us , '' the woman said shrilly .  
Bran seized his arm and held on tight with all his strength .  
He stood Bran up on the sill .  
He gave Bran a shove .  
Screaming , Bran went backward out the window into empty air .  
Tyrion Lannister looked up from his books and shivered , though the library was snug and warm .  
Something about the howling of a wolf took a man right out of his here and now and left him in a dark forest of the mind , running naked before the pack .  
When the direwolf howled again , Tyrion shut the heavy leatherbound cover on the book he was reading , a hundred year-old discourse on the changing of the seasons by a long-dead maester .  
`` I 'm off to break my fast .  
Ayrmidon 's Engines of War is quite rare , and yours is the only complete copy I 've ever seen . ''  
Patiently , Tyrion repeated his instructions , then clapped the septon on the shoulder and left him to his tasks .  
I wish he would be quicker about it . ''  
`` I could silence the creature , if it please you , '' he said through his open visor .  
I did not see you standing there . ''  
`` Joffrey , it is past time you called on Lord Eddard and his lady , to offer them your comfort . ''  
`` I 'm going to tell Mother ! ''  
Tyrion hit him again .  
`` But first you get yourself to Lord and Lady Stark , and you fall to your knees in front of them , and you tell them how very sorry you are , and that you are at their service if there is the slightest thing you can do for them or theirs in this desperate hour , and that all your prayers go with them .  
Then he turned and fled headlong from the yard , holding his cheek .  
Tyrion watched him run .  
He turned to find Clegane looming overhead like a cliff .  
It was fashioned in the likeness of a snarling black hound , fearsome to behold , but Tyrion had always thought it a great improvement over Clegane 's hideously burned face .  
`` I pray he does , '' Tyrion Lannister replied .  
`` Do you know where I might find my brother ? ''  
He gave Sandor Clegane a perfunctory nod and walked away as briskly as his stunted legs would carry him , whistling .  
His sister peered at him with the same expression of faint distaste she had worn since the day he was born .  
Tyrion knew that about his brother , and forgave it .  
During all the terrible long years of his childhood , only Jaime had ever shown him the smallest measure of affection or respect , and for that Tyrion was willing to forgive him most anything .  
Burn it until it turns black . ''  
`` Do you have news of Bran , Uncle ? ''  
`` I do n't want Brandon to die , '' Tommen said timorously .  
Not like his brother , but then Jaime and Tyrion were somewhat less than peas in a pod themselves .  
`` Lord Eddard had a brother named Brandon as well , '' Jaime mused .  
Cersei was studying him warily .  
Myrcella gave a happy gasp , and Tommen smiled nervously , but it was not the children Tyrion was watching .  
The glance that passed between Jaime and Cersei lasted no more than a second , but he did not miss it .  
The bacon crunched when he bit into it .  
Every time they chase it away , it returns .  
The maester said they closed the window once , to shut out the noise , and Bran seemed to weaken .  
I will not have any of them coming south with us . ''  
Jaime said , `` You 'll have a hard time stopping them , sister .  
They follow those girls everywhere . ''  
I have a mind to go with them and see this Wall we have all heard so much of . ''  
`` I hope you 're not thinking of taking the black on us , sweet brother . ''  
No , I just want to stand on top of the Wall and piss off the edge of the world . ''  
She strode briskly from the morning room , her train and her pups trailing behind her .  
`` He will if Robert commands it , '' Tyrion said .  
`` I would , if it were my son .  
`` He would not take it kindly . ''  
He took a swallow of strong black beer to wash it all down , and grinned up wolfishly at Jaime , `` Why , Jaime , my sweet brother , '' he said , `` you wound me .  
You know how much I love my family . ''  
JON Jon climbed the steps slowly , trying not to think that this might be the last time ever .  
Not for a moment had she left Bran 's side .  
She had her meals brought to her there , and chamber pots as well , and a small hard bed to sleep on , though it was said she had scarcely slept at all .  
She fed him herself , the honey and water and herb mixture that sustained life .  
she asked in a voice strangely flat and emotionless .  
`` I came to see Bran , '' Jon said .  
She looked as though she had aged twenty years .  
`` You 've said it .  
Part of him wanted only to flee , but he knew that if he did he might never see Bran again .  
`` We do n't want you here . ''  
Now it only made him angry .  
He would be a Sworn Brother of the Night 's Watch soon , and face worse dangers than Catelyn Tully Stark .  
`` He 's my brother , '' he said .  
`` Shall I call the guards ? ''  
He crossed the room , keeping the bed between them , and looked down on Bran where he lay .  
This was not the Bran he remembered .  
The fall had shrunken him somehow .  
We have to leave today , before the snows come . ''  
He remembered how excited Bran had been at the prospect of the journey .  
Jon brushed away his tears , leaned over , and kissed his brother lightly on the lips .  
`` I wanted him to stay here with me , '' Lady Stark said softly .  
Jon watched her , wary .  
She was talking to him , but for a part of her , it was as though he were not even in the room .  
I went to the sept and prayed seven times to the seven faces of god that Ned would change his mind and leave him here with me .  
Jon lowered his eyes .  
He was at the door when she called out to him .  
He should have kept going , but she had never called him by his name before .  
He turned to find her looking at his face , as if she were seeing it for the first time .  
Jon had never seen her cry before .  
He seemed to have grown of late , as if Bran 's fall and his mother 's collapse had somehow made him stronger .  
`` He wanted to be gone an hour ago . ''  
He had snow in his hair , melting from the heat of his body .  
`` Did you see him ? ''  
`` I know it . ''  
He pulled Jon to him and embraced him fiercely .  
`` Uncle Benjen said to send you to the stables if I saw you , '' Robb finally said .  
Jon left him standing there in the snow , surrounded by wagons and wolves and horses .  
But when she smelled Ghost , she sat down on her haunches and yelped at them .  
Arya glanced behind her , saw Jon , and jumped to her feet .  
She threw her skinny arms tight around his neck .  
Arya disentangled herself from him and made a face .  
`` Septa Mordane says I have to do it all over .  
My things were n't properly folded , she says .  
A proper southron lady does n't just throw her clothes inside her chest like old rags , she says . ''  
`` I do n't think she 'd like Nymeria helping , either . ''  
The she-wolf regarded him silently with her dark golden eyes .  
I have something for you to take with you , and it has to be packed very carefully . ''  
By then Jon had pulled off the rags he 'd wrapped it in .  
He held it out to her .  
Jon drew out the blade slowly , so she could see the deep blue sheen of the steel .  
`` I had Mikken make this special .  
It wo n't hack a man 's head off , but it can poke him full of holes if you 're fast enough . ''  
He put the sword in her hands , showed her how to hold it , and stepped back .  
Arya gave him a whap on the arm with the flat of her blade .  
The blow stung , but Jon found himself grinning like an idiot .  
`` Septa Mordane will take it away from me . ''  
`` Not if she does n't know you have it , '' Jon said .  
Until you find a partner , watch how they fight in the yard .  
And whatever you do ... '' Arya knew what was coming next .  
They said it together .  
Suddenly she looked like she was going to cry .  
`` I wish you were coming with us . ''  
He was not going to let himself be sad .  
I 'll spend my first year on the Wall emptying chamber pots if I keep Uncle Ben waiting any longer . ''  
She set it aside almost shyly and showered him with kisses .  
When he turned back at the door , she was holding it again , trying it for balance .  
`` Ca n't you guess ? ''  
They said it together : `` Needle ! ''  
DAENERYS Daenerys Targaryen wed Khal Drogo with fear and barbaric splendor in a field beyond the walls of Pentos , for the Dothraki believed that all things of importance in a man 's life must be done beneath the open sky .  
Drogo had called his khalasar to attend him and they had come , forty thousand Dothraki warriors and uncounted numbers of women , children , and slaves .  
The khal had joined his khalasar , his estate given over to Daenerys and her brother until the wedding .  
`` Best we get Princess Daenerys wedded quickly before they hand half the wealth of Pentos away to sellswords and bravos , '' Ser Jorah Mormont jested .  
The exile had offered her brother his sword the night Dany had been sold to Khal Drogo ; Viserys had accepted eagerly .  
Magister Illyrio laughed lightly through his forked beard , but Viserys did not so much as smile .  
`` He can have her tomorrow , if he likes , '' her brother said .  
He glanced over at Dany , and she lowered her eyes .  
`` He will have the girl first , and after they are wed he must make his procession across the plains and present her to the dosh khaleen at Vaes Dolthrak .  
`` Guard your tongue , Mormont , or I 'll have it out .  
I am no lesser man , I am the rightful Lord of the Seven Kingdoms .  
Ser Jorah lowered his eyes respectfully .  
Honey and grease ran over his fingers and dripped down into his beard as he nibbled at the tender meat .  
There are no more dragons , Dany thought , staring at her brother , though she did not dare say it aloud .  
He struck her again .  
`` You woke the dragon , you woke the dragon . ''  
She closed her eyes and whimpered .  
A mighty earthen ramp had been raised amid the grass palaces , and there Dany was seated beside Khal Drogo , above the seething sea of Dothraki .  
They gorged themselves on horseflesh roasted with honey and peppers , drank themselves blind on fermented mare 's milk and Illyrio 's fine wines , and spat jests at each other across the fires , their voices harsh and alien in Dany 's ears .  
Illyrio and Ser Jorah sat beside him .  
He did not like sitting beneath her , and he fumed when the slaves offered each dish first to the khal and his bride , and served him from the portions they refused .  
He could do nothing but nurse his resentment , so nurse it he did , his mood growing blacker by the hour at each insult to his person .  
Dany had never felt so alone as she did seated in the midst of that vast horde .  
Her brother had told her to smile , and so she smiled until her face ached and the tears came unbidden to her eyes .  
She did her best to hide them , knowing how angry Viserys would be if he saw her crying , terrified of how Khal Drogo might react .  
Food was brought to her , steaming joints of meat and thick black sausages and Dothraki blood pies , and later fruits and sweetgrass stews and delicate pastries from the kitchens of Pentos , but she waved it all away .  
Her stomach was a roil , and she knew she could keep none of it down .  
Khal Drogo shouted commands and jests down to his bloodriders , and laughed at their replies , but he scarcely glanced at Dany beside him .  
Dothraki was incomprehensible to her , and the khal knew only a few words of the bastard Valyrian of the Free Cities , and none at all of the Common Tongue of the Seven Kingdoms .  
She would even have welcomed the conversation of Illyrio and her brother , but they were too far below to hear her .  
I am blood of the dragon , she told herself .  
I am Daenerys Stormborn , Princess of Dragonstone , of the blood and seed of Aegon the Conqueror .  
Drogo watched without expression , but his eyes followed their movements , and from time to time he would toss down a bronze medallion for the women to fight over .  
One of them finally stepped into the circle , grabbed a dancer by the arm , pushed her down to the ground , and mounted her right there , as a stallion mounts a mare .  
Illyrio had told her that might happen .  
There is no privacy in a khalasar , and they do not understand sin or shame as we do . ''  
She heard a shout , saw a shove , and in the blink of an eye the arakhs were out , long razor-sharp blades , half sword and half scythe .  
It ended as quickly as it began .  
As the loser died , the winner took hold of the nearest woman-not even the one they had been quarreling over-and had her there and then .  
Magister Illyrio had warned Dany about this too .  
As the hours passed , the terror grew in Dany , until it was all she could do not to scream .  
She was afraid of her brother , of what he might do if she failed him .  
I am the blood of the dragon , she told herself again .  
Drogo stood and pulled Dany to her feet beside him .  
And after the gifts , she knew , after the sun had gone down , it would be time for the first ride and the consummation of her marriage .  
Dany tried to put the thought aside , but it would not leave her .  
Her brother Viserys gifted her with three handmaids .  
Dany knew they had cost him nothing ; Illyrio no doubt had provided the girls .  
`` Illyrio and I selected them personally for you .  
Irri will teach you riding , Jhiqui the Dothraki tongue , and Doreah will instruct you in the womanly arts of love . ''  
They were histories and songs of the Seven Kingdoms , she saw , written in the Common Tongue .  
She thanked him with all her heart .  
When she opened it , she found piles of the finest velvets and damasks the Free Cities could produce ... and resting on top , nestled in the soft cloth , three huge eggs .  
They were the most beautiful things she had ever seen , each different than the others , patterned in such rich colors that at first she thought they were crusted with jewels , and so large it took both of her hands to hold one .  
She lifted it delicately , expecting that it would be made of some fine porcelain or delicate enamel , or even blown glass , but it was much heavier than that , as if it were all of solid stone .  
The surface of the shell was covered with tiny scales , and as she turned the egg between her fingers , they shimmered like polished metal in the light of the setting sun .  
`` The eons have turned them to stone , yet still they burn bright with beauty . ''  
`` I shall treasure them always . ''  
Dany had heard tales of such eggs , but she had never seen one , nor thought to see one .  
He had collected a fortune in horses and slaves for his part in selling her to Khal Drogo .  
The khal 's bloodriders offered her the traditional three weapons , and splendid weapons they were .  
Magister Illyrio and Ser Jorah had taught her the traditional refusals for these offerings .  
`` This is a gift worthy of a great warrior , O blood of my blood , and I am but a woman .  
And so Khal Drogo too received his `` bride gifts . ''  
An expectant hush rippled out from the center of the camp as he left her side , growing until it had swallowed the whole khalasar .  
When he returned , the dense press of Dothraki gift-givers parted before him , and he led the horse to her .  
Hesitantly she reached out and stroked the horse 's neck , ran her fingers through the silver of her mane .  
Khal Drogo said something in Dothraki and Magister Illyrio translated .  
`` She is the pride of the khalasar , `` Illyrio said .  
`` Custom decrees that the khaleesi must ride a mount worthy of her place by the side of the khal `` Drogo stepped forward and put his hands on her waist .  
He lifted her up as easily as if she were a child and set her on the thin Dothraki saddle , so much smaller than the ones she was used to .  
she asked Illyrio .  
Nervously Dany gathered the reins in her hands and slid her feet into the short stirrups .  
Praying that she would not fall off and disgrace herself , she gave the filly the lightest and most timid touch with her knees .  
Dany found herself moving faster than she had intended , yet somehow it was exciting rather than terrifying .  
The horse broke into a trot , and she smiled .  
She sent it into a gallop , and now the Dothraki were hooting and laughing and shouting at her as they jumped out of her way .  
As she turned to ride back , a firepit loomed ahead , directly in her path .  
A daring she had never known filled Daenerys then , and she gave the filly her head .  
When she pulled up before Magister Illyrio , she said , `` Tell Khal Drogo that he has given me the wind . ''  
The fat Pentoshi stroked his yellow beard as he repeated her words in Dothraki , and Dany saw her new husband smile for the first time .  
Khal Drogo commanded his bloodriders to bring forth his own horse , a lean red stallion .  
As the khal was saddling the horse , Viserys slid close to Dany on her silver , dug his fingers into her leg , and said , `` Please him , sweet sister , or I swear , you will see the dragon wake as it has never woken before . ''  
She felt like a child once more , only thirteen and all alone , not ready for what was about to happen to her .  
They rode out together as the stars came out , leaving the khalasar and the grass palaces behind .  
Khal Drogo spoke no word to her , but drove his stallion at a hard trot through the gathering dusk .  
Afterward she could not say how far or how long they had ridden , but it was full dark when they stopped at a grassy place beside a small stream .  
Drogo swung off his horse and lifted her down from hers .  
She stood there helpless and trembling in her wedding silks while he secured the horses , and when he turned to look at her , she began to cry .  
He lifted his hand and rubbed away the tears roughly with a callused thumb .  
Perhaps he had only that word , she thought , but it was one word more than she had known he had , and somehow it made her feel a little better .  
Drogo touched her hair lightly , sliding the silver-blond strands between his fingers and murmuring softly in Dothraki .  
Dany did not understand the words , yet there was warmth in the tone , a tenderness she had never expected from this man .  
He put his finger under her chin and lifted her head , so she was looking up into his eyes .  
Drogo towered over her as he towered over everyone .  
Taking her lightly under the arms , he lifted her and seated her on a rounded rock beside the stream .  
Then he sat on the ground facing her , legs crossed beneath him , their faces finally at a height .  
He pulled it over his right shoulder and began to remove the bells from his hair , one by one .  
When they were done , Drogo gestured .  
Slowly , carefully , she began to undo his braid .  
All the while he sat there silently , watching her .  
When she was done , he shook his head , and his hair spread out behind him like a river of darkness , oiled and gleaming .  
He began to undress her .  
He removed her silks one by one , carefully , while Dany sat unmoving , silent , looking at his eyes .  
When he bared her small breasts , she could not help herself .  
She averted her eyes and covered herself with her hands .  
He pulled her hands away from her breasts , gently but firmly , then lifted her face again to make her look at him .  
He stood her up then and pulled her close to remove the last of her silks .  
She shivered , and gooseflesh covered her arms and legs .  
Khal Drogo sat with his legs crossed , looking at her , drinking in her body with his eyes .  
After a while he began to touch her .  
She could sense the fierce strength in his hands , but he never hurt her .  
He held her hand in his own and brushed her fingers , one by one .  
He ran a hand gently down her leg .  
He stroked her face , tracing the curve of her ears , running a finger gently around her mouth .  
He put both hands in her hair and combed it with his fingers .  
He turned her around , massaged her shoulders , slid a knuckle down the path of her spine .  
He stroked the soft skin underneath until it tingled .  
He circled her nipples with his thumbs , pinched them between thumb and forefinger , then began to pull at her , very lightly at first , then more insistently , until her nipples stiffened and began to ache .  
He stopped then , and drew her down onto his lap .  
He cupped her face in his huge hands and looked into his eyes .  
he said , and she knew it was a question .  
She took his hand and moved it down to the wetness between her thighs .  
Alyn shook him roughly from his dreams and Ned stumbled into the predawn chill , groggy from sleep , to find his horse saddled and the king already mounted .  
Ser Boros and Ser Meryn waited behind him with a dozen guardsmen , Ned saw .  
Robert set the pace , driving his huge black destrier hard as Ned galloped along beside him , trying to keep up .  
He called out a question as they rode , but the wind blew his words away , and the king did not hear him .  
Dawn Age broke as they crested a low ridge , and finally the king pulled up .  
Robert was flushed and exhilarated as Ned reined up beside him .  
`` That damnable wheelhouse , the way it creaks and groans , climbing every Burnp in the road as if it were a mountain ... I promise you , if that wretched thing breaks another axle , I 'm going to burn it , and Cersei can walk ! ''  
`` I do believe you mean it . ''  
`` I do , I do , '' the king said .  
Mng 's Justice you and me , two vagabond knights on the kingsroad , our swords at our sides and the gods know what in front of us , and maybe a farmer 's daughter or a tavern wench to warm our beds tonight . ''  
We are not the boys we were . ''  
`` You were never the boy you were , '' Robert grumbled .  
You told me once .  
You know the one I mean , your bastard 's mother ? ''  
`` She must have been a rare wench if she could make Lord Eddard Stark forget his honor , even for an hour .  
You never told me what she looked like ... '' Ned 's mouth tightened in anger .  
Leave it be , Robert , for the love you say you bear me .  
I dishonored myself and I dishonored Catelyn , in the sight of gods and men . ''  
`` I had taken her to wife .  
Damn it , no woman wants Great Sept of Baelor the Blessed in her bed . ''  
`` Well , I 'll not press you if you feel so strong about it , though I swear , at times you 're so prickly you ought to take the hedgehog as your sigil . ''  
Ned pointed them out to his king .  
`` Well , I did not bring you out here to talk of graves or bicker about your bastard .  
He served Robert now as he had once served Aerys Targaryen .  
Ned unrolled the paper with trepidation , thinking of Lysa and her terrible accusation , but the message did not concern Lady Arryn .  
`` Do you remember Ser Jorah Mormont ? ''  
As the Mormonts were bannermen to the Starks , his crime had dishonored the north .  
Ned had made the long journey west to Bear Island , only to find when he arrived that Jorah had taken ship beyond the reach of Ice and the king 's justice .  
`` I would rather he become a corpse . ''  
`` Jorah aside , what do you make of his report ? ''  
Shall we send her a wedding gift ? ''  
Ned did not feign surprise ; Robert 's hatred of the Targaryens was a madness in him .  
He remembered the angry words they had exchanged when Tywin Lannister had presented Robert with the corpses of Rhaegar 's wife and children as a token of fealty .  
Ned had named that murder ; Robert called it war .  
When he had protested that the young prince and princess were no more than babes , his new-made king had replied , `` I see no babes .  
Eddard Stark had ridden out that very day in a cold rage , to fight the last battles of the war alone in the south .  
It had taken another death to reconcile them ; Lyanna 's death , and the grief they had shared over her passing .  
This time , Ned resolved to keep his temper .  
It was said that Rhaegar 's little girl had cried as they dragged her from beneath her bed to face the swords .  
The boy had been no more than a babe in arms , yet Lord Tywin 's soldiers had torn him from his mother 's breast and dashed his head against a wall .  
And Rhaegar ... how many times do you think he raped your sister ?  
`` I will kill every Targaryen I can get my hands on , until they are as dead as their dragons , and then I will piss on their graves . ''  
Some pox-ridden Pentoshi cheesemonger had her brother and her walled up on his estate with pointy-hatted eunuchs all around them , and now he 's handed them over to the Dothraki .  
More fool I , I listened to him . ''  
The anger was leaving him as suddenly as it had come .  
I tell you , Ned , I do not like this marriage .  
They bide their time for now , but give them half a chance , they will murder me in my bed , and my sons with me .  
I know the boy is your nephew , but with Targaryens climbing in bed with Dothraki , I would be mad to rest one quarter of the realm on the shoulders of a sickly child . ''  
Stannis proved himself at the siege of Storm 's End , surely . ''  
He let the name hang there for a moment .  
`` It 's Jaime Lannister , is it not ? ''  
Robert kicked his horse back into motion and started down the ridge toward the barrows .  
He rode on dangerous ground now , he knew .  
`` At the moment , Lord Tywin looms eternal as Casterly Rock , so I doubt that Jaime will be succeeding anytime soon .  
Do n't vex me about this , Ned , the stone has been set . ''  
`` Your Grace , may I speak frankly ? ''  
`` Can you trust Jaime Lannister ? ''  
He has done everything I have ever asked of him .  
His sword helped win the throne I sit on . ''  
His sword helped taint the throne you sit on , Ned thought , but he did not permit the words to pass his lips .  
`` He swore a vow to protect his king 's life with his own .  
`` If Jaime had n't done it , it would have been left for you or me . ''  
`` We were not Sworn Brothers of the Kingsguard , '' Ned said .  
The time had come for Robert to hear the whole truth , he decided then and there .  
`` I won my crown there .  
How should I forget it ? ''  
`` So when the Targaryen host broke and ran , you gave the pursuit into my hands .  
I expected to find the gates closed to us . ''  
Aerys Targaryen must have thought that his gods had answered his prayers when Lord Tywin Lannister appeared before the gates of King 's Landing with an army twelve thousand strong , professing loyalty .  
He had opened his city to the lions at the gate .  
`` Treachery was a coin the Targaryens knew well , '' Robert said .  
He had lived his lies for fourteen years , yet they still haunted him at night .  
`` You avenged Lyanna at the Trident , '' Ned said , halting beside the king .  
Promise me , Ned , she had whispered .  
A crown ... it was the girl I prayed them for .  
I ask you , Ned , what good is it to wear a crown ?  
`` I can not answer for the gods , Your Grace ... only for what I found when I rode into the throne room that day , '' Ned said .  
I can see him still .  
He was seated on the Iron Throne , high above his knights , wearing a helm fashioned in the shape of a lion 's head .  
It felt as though they were watching me , somehow .  
I looked at him seated there on the throne , and I waited .  
He took off his helm , and he said to me , 'Have no fear , Stark .  
It 's not a very comfortable seat , I 'm afraid . '  
`` You think I should mistrust Lannister because he sat on my throne for a few moments ? ''  
`` Boy or man , he had no right to that throne . ''  
`` Well , now I know Jaime 's dark sin , and the matter can be forgotten .  
He kicked his horse back into motion and galloped up over the barrow , raining earth down behind him .  
Not for the first time , he wondered what he was doing here and why he had come .  
He was no Jon Arryn , to curb the wildness of his king and teach him wisdom .  
Robert would do what he pleased , as he always had , and nothing Ned could say or do would change that .  
He belonged with Catelyn in her grief , and with Bran .  
Resigned , Eddard Stark put his boots into his horse and set off after the king .  
Tyrion Lannister knew the maps as well as anyone , but a fortnight on the wild track that passed for the kingsroad up here had brought home the lesson that the map was one thing and the land quite another .  
They had left Winterfell on the same day as the king , amidst all the commotion of the royal departure , riding out to the sound of men shouting and horses snorting , to the rattle of wagons and the groaning of the queen 's huge wheelhouse , as a light snow flurried about them .  
There the banners and the wagons and the columns of knights and freeriders turned south , taking the tumult with them , while Tyrion turned north with Benjen Stark and his nephew .  
Three days ride from Winterfell , however , the farmland gave way to dense wood , and the kingsroad grew lonely .  
Benjen Stark had only his bastard nephew and some fresh mounts for the Night 's Watch , but at the edge of the wolfswood they stayed a night behind the wooden walls of a forest holdfast , and there joined up with another of the black brothers , one Yoren .  
Yoren was stooped and sinister , his features hidden behind a beard as black as his clothing , but he seemed as tough as an old root and as hard as stone .  
Tyrion noticed Jon Snow watching Yoren and his sullen companions , with an odd cast to his face that looked uncomfortably like dismay .  
Benjen Stark seemed to share his brother 's distaste for Lannisters , and he had not been pleased when Tyrion had told him of his intentions .  
`` I warn you , Lannister , you 'll find no inns at the Wall , '' he had said , looking down on him .  
`` You will not like the ride , I promise you that , '' he 'd said curtly , and since the moment they set out , he had done all he could to live up to that promise .  
He took a small revenge in the matter of his riding fur , a tattered bearskin , old and musty- smelling .  
Stark had offered it to him in an excess of Night 's Watch gallantry , no doubt expecting him to graciously decline .  
He had brought his warmest clothing with him when they rode out of Winterfell , and soon discovered that it was nowhere near warm enough .  
The nights were well below freezing now , and when the wind blew it was like a knife cutting right through his warmest woolens .  
By now Stark was no doubt regretting his chivalrous impulse .  
Farms and holdfasts grew scarcer and smaller as they pressed northward , ever deeper into the darkness of the wolfswood , until finally there were no more roofs to shelter under , and they were thrown back on their own resources .  
So while Stark and Yoren and the other men erected rude shelters , tended the horses , and built a fire , it became his custom to take his fur and a wineskin and go off by himself to read .  
With Lord Eddard Stark 's permission , Tyrion had borrowed a few rare volumes from the Winterfell library and packed them for the ride north .  
When he had first come to King 's Landing for his sister 's wedding to Robert Baratheon , he had made it a point to seek out the dragon skulls that had hung on the walls of Targaryen 's throne room .  
King Robert had replaced them with banners and tapestries , but Tyrion had persisted until he found the skulls in the dank cellar where they had been stored .  
They liked the fire , he sensed .  
When he had moved away , Tyrion could have sworn that the beast 's empty eye sockets had watched him go .  
They were the last of the Targaryen dragons , perhaps the last dragons anywhere , and they had not lived very long .  
The singers had given them the names of gods : Balerion , Meraxes , Vhaghar .  
Tyrion stood in that dank cellar for a long time , staring at Balerion 's huge , empty-eyed skull until his torch burned low , trying to grasp the size of the living animal , to imagine how it must have looked when it spread its great black wings and swept across the skies , breathing fire .  
His own remote ancestor , King Loren of the Rock , had tried to stand against the fire when he joined with King Mern of the Reach to oppose the Targaryen conquest .  
Aegon Dragonlord had perhaps a fifth that number , the chroniclers said , and most of those were conscripts from the ranks of the last king he had slain , their loyalties uncertain .  
It was the only time that Vhaghar , Meraxes , and Balerion were all unleashed at once .  
King Loren had escaped , and lived long enough to surrender , pledge his fealty to the Targaryens , and beget a son , for which Tyrion was duly grateful .  
Jon Snow was standing a few feet away , regarding him curiously .  
He closed the book on a finger and said , `` Look at me and tell me what you see . ''  
The boy looked at him suspiciously .  
Had I been born a peasant , they might have left me out to die , or sold me to some slaver 's grotesquerie .  
I must do my part for the honor of my House , would n't you agree ?  
Well , my legs may be too small for my body , but my head is too large , although I prefer to think it is just large enough for my mind .  
My brother has his sword , King Robert has his warhammer , and I have my mind ... and a mind needs books as a sword needs a whetstone , if it is to keep its edge . ''  
Whoever his mother had been , she had left little of herself in her son .  
Perhaps he thought Tyrion was making fun of him .  
`` I used to start fires in the bowels of Casterly Rock and stare at the flames for hours , pretending they were dragonfire .  
`` Well , no doubt the Starks have been terribly good to you .  
I 'm certain Lady Stark treats you as if you were one of her own .  
And your brother Robb , he 's always been kind , and why not ?  
He gets Winterfell and you get the Wall .  
I 've seen you looking at Yoren and his boys .  
Those are your new brothers , Jon Snow , how do you like them ?  
The bad part is you freeze your balls off , but since you 're not allowed to breed anyway , I do n't suppose that matters . ''  
He took a step forward , his hands coiling into fists , close to tears .  
He took a step forward , intending to give the boy a reassuring pat on the shoulder or mutter some word of apology .  
He never saw the wolf , where it was or how it came at him .  
One moment he was walking toward Snow and the next he was flat on his back on the hard rocky ground , the book spinning away from him as he fell , the breath going out of him at the sudden impact , his mouth full of dirt and blood and rotting leaves .  
He ground his teeth in frustration , grabbed a root , and pulled himself back to a sitting position .  
`` Asking me nicely . ''  
Tyrion Lannister felt the anger coiling inside him , and crushed it out with a will .  
It was not the first time in his life he had been humiliated , and it would not be the last .  
Jon came around behind him , slid his hands under his arms , and lifted him easily to his feet .  
Then he picked up the book and handed it back .  
`` Why did he attack me ' ? ''  
He wiped blood and dirt from his mouth with the back of his hand .  
`` Maybe he thought you were a grumkin . ''  
Jon picked up the wineskin and handed it to Tyrion .  
Tyrion pulled out the stopper , tilted his head , and squeezed a long stream into his mouth .  
The wine was cool fire as it trickled down his throat and warmed his belly .  
`` Come , we had better return to camp before your uncle calls the banners . ''  
Jon Snow offered a hand to help him over a thick tangle of roots , but Tyrion shook him off .  
He would make his own way , as he had all his life .  
He dragged himself over to where his man Morrec was tending the stewpot .  
Benjen Stark emerged from the shelter he shared with his nephew .  
I thought the Others had gotten you . ''  
The squirrel gave some body to the stew , and they ate it with black bread and hard cheese that night around their fire .  
Tyrion shared around his skin of wine until even Yoren grew mellow .  
As he stepped into the shelter his men had built for him , he paused and looked back at Jon Snow .  
CATELYN Ned and the girls were eight days gone when Maester Luwin came to her one night in Bran 's sickroom , carrying a reading lamp and the books of account .  
Catelyn looked at Bran in his sickbed and brushed his hair back off his forehead .  
It had grown very long , she realized .  
She would have to cut it soon .  
We must replenish our stores before- '' She cut him off .  
`` I said , take the books away .  
`` Poole went south to establish Lord Eddard 's household at King 's Landing . ''  
She wondered whether they might move his bed under the window , so he could get the morning sun .  
Besides the steward , we need a captain of the guards to fill Jory 's place , a new master of horse- '' Her eyes snapped around and found him .  
Hullen rode south with Lord Eddard , so- '' `` My son lies here broken and dying , Luwin , and you wish to discuss a new master of horse ?  
Do you think I care what happens in the stables ?  
Do you think it matters to me one whit ?  
I would gladly butcher every horse in Winterfell with my own hands if it would open Bran 's eyes , do you understand that ?  
He bowed his head .  
Catelyn had not heard him enter , but there he stood in the doorway , looking at her .  
She had been shouting , she realized with a sudden flush of shame .  
Maester Luwin looked from Catelyn to her son .  
He had come from outside , Catelyn saw ; his cheeks were red from the cold , his hair shaggy and windblown .  
He was wearing a sword , she saw .  
Catelyn had always thought Robb looked like her ; like Bran and Rickon and Sansa , he had the Tully coloring , the auburn hair , the blue eyes .  
Yet now for the first time she saw something of Eddard Stark in his face , something as stern and hard as the north .  
What do you imagine I 'm doing ?  
You did n't even come to the gate when Father and the girls went south . ''  
`` I said my farewells to them here , and watched them ride out from that window . ''  
She had begged Ned not to go , not now , not after what had happened ; everything had changed now , could n't he see that ?  
He had no choice , he had told her , and then he left , choosing .  
`` She took her son 's limp hand , sliding his fingers through her own .  
What if Bran needs me and I 'm not here ? ''  
He thinks everyone has deserted him , so he follows me around all day , clutching my leg and crying .  
`` Mother , I need you too .  
I 'm trying but I ca n't ... I ca n't do it all by myself . ''  
She wanted to get up and go to him , but Bran was still holding her hand and she could not move .  
`` He needs to hear them sing , '' Robb said .  
`` You can tell them apart if you listen close . ''  
Night after night , the howling and the cold wind and the grey empty castle , on and on they went , never changing , and her boy lying there broken , the sweetest of her children , the gentlest , Bran who loved to laugh and climb and dreamt of knighthood , all gone now , she would never hear him laugh again .  
Sobbing , she pulled her hand free of his and covered her ears against those terrible howls .  
`` I ca n't stand it , make them stop , make them stop , kill them all if you must , just make them stop ! ''  
She did n't remember falling to the floor , but there she was , and Robb was lifting her , holding her in strong arms .  
He helped her to her narrow bed in the corner of the sickroom .  
Maester Luwin tells me you 've hardly slept since Bran 's fall . ''  
`` Gods forgive me , Robb , I ca n't , what if he dies while I 'm asleep , what if he dies , what if he dies ... '' The wolves were still howling .  
She screamed and held her ears again .  
Robb went to the window , but as he reached for the shutters another sound was added to the mournful howling of the direwolves .  
They 've never done that before ... '' Catelyn heard his breath catch in his throat .  
`` Fire , `` he whispered .  
Robb did not seem to hear her .  
Robb looked at her as if she 'd gone mad .  
She heard him shout to the guards outside the room , heard them descending together in a wild rush , taking the stairs two and three at a time .  
The howling was gone , she realized as she listened to the cacophony .  
Catelyn said a silent prayer of thanks to the seven faces of god as she went to the window .  
She watched the smoke rise into the sky and thought sadly of all the books the Starks had gathered over the centuries .  
Catelyn knew all the men who worked in their stables , and he was none of them .  
She spun back toward the window to scream for help , but the man moved faster than she would have believed .  
She reached up with both hands and grabbed the blade with all her strength , pulling it away from her throat .  
She heard him cursing into her ear .  
Catelyn twisted her head to the side and managed to get a piece of his flesh between her teeth .  
She ground her teeth together and tore at him , and all of a sudden he let go .  
She sucked in air and screamed , and he grabbed her hair and pulled her away from him , and she stumbled and went down , and then he was standing over her , breathing hard , shaking .  
There was a low rumble , less than a snarl , the merest whisper of a threat , but he must have heard something , because he started to turn just as the wolf made its leap .  
They went down together , half sprawled over Catelyn where she 'd fallen .  
His blood felt like warm rain as it sprayed across her face .  
It was Bran 's wolf , she realized .  
She lifted her hand , trembling .  
When it had cleaned all the blood off her hand , it turned away silently and jumped up on Bran 's bed and lay down beside him .  
That was the way they found them , when Robb and Maester Luwin and Ser Rodrik burst in with half the guards in Winterfell .  
When the laughter finally died in her throat , they wrapped her in warm blankets and led her back to the Great Keep , to her own chambers .  
Old Nan undressed her and helped her into a scalding hot bath and washed the blood off her with a soft cloth .  
Afterward Maester Luwin arrived to dress her wounds .  
The maester told her the pain was just starting now , and gave her milk of the poppy to help her sleep .  
Finally she closed her eyes .  
When she opened them again , they told her that she had slept four days .  
It all seemed like a nightmare to her now , everything since Bran 's fall , a terrible dream of blood and grief , but she had the pain in her hands to remind her that it was real .  
They looked at her in surprise and ran to do her bidding .  
Catelyn remembered the way she had been before , and she was ashamed .  
She had let them all down , her children , her husband , her House .  
Rodrik Cassel came with him , and her husband 's ward Theon Greyjoy , and lastly Hallis Mollen , a muscular guardsman with a square brown beard .  
`` He was no man of Winterfell , m'lady , but some says they seen him here and about the castle these past few weeks . ''  
`` With all these strangers filling up Winterfell of late , there 's no way of saying who he belonged to . ''  
`` Between the horses Lord Eddard took south and them we sent north to the Night 's Watch , the stalls were half-empty .  
Could be Hodor saw him , the talk is that boy 's been acting queer , but simple as he is ... '' Hal shook his head .  
`` He had ninety silver stags in a leather bag buried beneath the straw . ''  
`` Begging your grace , m'lady , you saying he was out to kill your boy ? ''  
He set the library fire thinking I would rush to put it out , taking any guards with me .  
`` Gods , he 's only a little boy , helpless , sleeping ... '' Catelyn gave her firstborn a challenging look .  
And with it came Maester Luwin .  
Maester Luwin lowered his eyes .  
She sent the servants away and looked back to Robb .  
`` Do you have the answer yet ? ''  
`` How many guards do you want , m'lady ? ''  
No one sees Bran without my warrant or my mother 's . ''  
`` The circumstances did not allow me to examine it closely , but I can vouch for its edge , '' Catelyn replied with a dry smile .  
`` We found the knife still in the villain 's grasp .  
It seemed to me that it was altogether too fine a weapon for such a man , so I looked at it long and hard .  
He looked at her strangely , but did as she told him .  
`` You have my oath , '' Maester Luwin said .  
He nodded his consent .  
`` My sister Lysa believes the Lannisters murdered her husband , Lord Arryn , the Hand of the King , '' Catelyn told them .  
`` It comes to me that Jaime Lannister did not join the hunt the day Bran fell .  
`` I do not think Bran fell from that tower , '' she said into the stillness .  
`` I think he was thrown . ''  
He drew his sword and waved it in the air .  
Never draw your sword unless you mean to use it .  
Abashed , Robb sheathed his sword , suddenly a child again .  
Catelyn said to Ser Rodrik , `` I see my son is wearing steel now . ''  
Robb was looking at her anxiously .  
`` Winterfell may have need of all its swords soon , and they had best not be made of wood . ''  
Theon Greyjoy put a hand on the hilt of his blade and said , `` My lady , if it comes to that , my House owes yours a great debt . ''  
Maester Luwin pulled at his chain collar where it chafed against his neck .  
She will not take it kindly .  
There was only one place to find the truth of it , Catelyn realized .  
She looked at Ser Rodrik with his great white whiskers , at Maester Luwin in his grey robes , at young Greyjoy , lean and dark and impetuous .  
`` I have done everything I can for Bran , '' she said , laying a wounded hand on his arm .  
As you reminded me yourself , Robb , I have other children to think of now . ''  
I would not have the Lannisters know I am coming . ''  
`` My lady , let me accompany you at least .  
She thought for a moment , then nodded her consent .  
Strong horses and brisk winds should bring us to King 's Landing well ahead of Ned and the Lannisters . ''  
And then , she thought , we shall see what we shall see .  
SANSA Eddard Stark had left before dawn , Septa Mordane informed Sansa as they broke their fast .  
`` She 's not a dog , she 's a direwolf , '' Sansa pointed out as Lady licked her fingers with a rough tongue .  
`` Anyway , Father said we could keep them with us if we want . ''  
`` You 're a good girl , Sansa , but I do vow , when it comes to that creature you 're as willful as your sister Arya . ''  
She had brushed out her long auburn hair until it shone , and picked her nicest blue silks .  
Just thinking it made her feel a strange fluttering inside , even though they were not to marry for years and years .  
Sansa did not really know Joffrey yet , but she was already in love with him .  
He was all she ever dreamt her prince should be , tall and handsome and strong , with hair like gold .  
She treasured every chance to spend time with him , few as they were .  
`` May I be excused ? ''  
Septa Mordane helped herself to more bread and honey , and Sansa slid from the bench .  
Outside , she stood for a moment amidst the shouts and curses and the creak of wooden wheels as the men broke down the tents and pavilions and loaded the wagons for another day 's march .  
The inn was a sprawling three-story structure of pale stone , the biggest that Sansa had ever seen , but even so , it had accommodations for less than a third of the king 's party , which had swollen to more than four hundred with the addition of her father 's household and the freeriders who had joined them on the road .  
She found Arya on the banks of the Trident , trying to hold Nymeria still while she brushed dried mud from her fur .  
Arya gave her a look like she was so stupid .  
`` If you came with us sometimes , you 'd see . ''  
`` All it does is get you soiled and dusty and sore . ''  
`` Hold still , `` she snapped at Nymeria , `` I 'm not hurting you . ''  
Then to Sansa she said , `` When we were crossing the Neck , I counted thirty-six flowers I never saw before , and Mycah showed me a lizard-lion . ''  
They had been twelve days crossing the Neck , rumbling down a crooked causeway through an endless black bog , and she had hated every moment of it .  
The air had been damp and clammy , the causeway so narrow they could not even make proper camp at night , they had to stop right on the kingsroad .  
One day she came back grinning her horsey grin , her hair all tangled and her clothes covered in mud , clutching a raggedy bunch of purple and green flowers for Father .  
Sansa kept hoping he would tell Arya to behave herself and act like the highborn lady she was supposed to be , but he never did , he only hugged her and thanked her for the flowers .  
Then it turned out the purple flowers were called poison kisses , and Arya got a rash on her arms .  
Sansa would have thought that might have taught her a lesson , but Arya laughed about it , and the next day she rubbed mud all over her arms like some ignorant bog woman just because her friend Mycah told her it would stop the itching .  
She had bruises on her arms and shoulders too , dark purple welts and faded green-and-yellow splotches , Sansa had seen them when her sister undressed for sleep .  
`` Last week we found this haunted watchtower , and the day before we chased a herd of wild horses .  
You should have seen them run when they caught a scent of Nymeria . ''  
The wolf wriggled in her grasp and Arya scolded her .  
`` Stop that , I have to do the other side , you 're all muddy . ''  
Sansa knew all about the sorts of people Arya liked to talk to : squires and grooms and serving girls , old men and naked children , rough-spoken freeriders of uncertain birth .  
Just the sight of him was enough to make Sansa feel sick , but Arya seemed to prefer his company to hers .  
Arya ignored her .  
Sansa scratched her ears the way she liked , and Lady sat beside her on her haunches , watching Arya chase Nymeria .  
Sansa sucked in her breath , shocked that even Arya would say such a thing , but her sister prattled on , heedless .  
`` She wo n't even let me bring Nymeria . ''  
She thrust the brush under her belt and stalked her wolf .  
Nymeria watched her approach warily .  
`` And Princess Myrcella is afraid of them , you know that . ''  
Arya grabbed Nymeria around her neck , but the moment she pulled out the brush again the direwolf wriggled free and bounded off .  
Frustrated , Arya threw down the brush .  
`` I do n't care what you say , I 'm going out riding . ''  
`` Gods be true , Arya , sometimes you act like such a child , '' Sansa said .  
She turned to walk off , but Arya shouted after her , `` They wo n't let you bring Lady either . ''  
Alone and humiliated , Sansa took the long way back to the inn , where she knew Septa Mordane would be waiting .  
All she wanted was for things to be nice and pretty , the way they were in the songs .  
It would have been easier if Arya had been a bastard , like their half brother Jon .  
Once , when she was littler , Sansa had even asked Mother if perhaps there had n't been some mistake .  
But Mother had only laughed and said no , Arya was her daughter and Sansa 's trueborn sister , blood of their blood .  
Sansa could not think why Mother would want to lie about it , so she supposed it had to be true .  
The doors had been thrown open , she saw , and the queen stood at the top of the wooden steps , smiling down at someone .  
She heard her saying , `` The council does us great honor , my good lords . ''  
she asked a squire she knew .  
When she got closer , she saw two knights kneeling before the queen , in armor so fine and gorgeous that it made her blink .  
When he removed his helm , Sansa saw that he was an old man with hair as pale as his armor , yet he seemed strong and graceful for all that .  
Though he was not an old man , only a few wisps of hair remained to him , sprouting above his ears , but those he had grown long as a woman 's .  
`` The king is gone hunting , but I know he will be pleased to see you when he returns , '' the queen was saying to the two knights who knelt before her , but Sansa could not take her eyes off the third man .  
Slowly he turned his head .  
A terror as overwhelming as anything Sansa Stark had ever felt filled her suddenly .  
Strong hands grasped her by the shoulders , and for a moment Sansa thought it was her father , but when she turned , it was the burned face of Sandor Clegane looking down at her , his mouth twisted in a terrible mockery of a smile .  
`` Do I frighten you so much ? ''  
He did , and had since she had first laid eyes on the ruin that fire had made of his face , though it seemed to her now that he was not half so terrifying as the other .  
Still , Sansa wrenched away from him , and the Hound laughed , and Lady moved between them , rumbling a warning .  
Sansa dropped to her knees to wrap her arms around the wolf .  
They were all gathered around gaping , she could feel their eyes on her , and here and there she heard muttered comments and titters of laughter .  
and the Hound 's rasping voice replied , `` The Starks use them for wet nurses , '' and Sansa realized that the two stranger knights were looking down on her and Lady , swords in their hands , and then she was frightened again , and ashamed .  
Tears filled her eyes .  
She heard the queen say , `` Joffrey , go to her . ''  
`` Leave her alone , '' Joffrey said .  
He gave her his hand , drew her to her feet .  
`` And you , dog , away with you , you 're scaring my betrothed . ''  
`` Ofttimes Ser Ilyn Payne frightens me as well , sweet lady .  
Sansa finally found her words .  
I am Ser Barristan Selmy , of the Kingsguard . ''  
Sansa knew the name , and now the courtesies that Septa Mordane had taught her over the years came back to her .  
Do n't flatter him too sweetly , child , he thinks overmuch of himself already . ''  
`` Now , wolf girl , if you can put a name to me as well , then I must concede that you are truly our Hand 's daughter . ''  
By your extreme youth , you can only be Renly Baratheon , Lord of Storm 's End and councillor to the king , and so I name you . ''  
`` By his extreme youth , he can only be a prancing jackanapes , and so I name him . ''  
Lady bared her teeth and began to growl , a low rumble full of menace , but this time Sansa silenced the wolf with a gentle hand to the head .  
`` I am sorry if I offended you , Ser Ilyn , '' she said .  
As the headsman looked at her , his pale colorless eyes seemed to strip the clothes away from her , and then the skin , leaving her soul naked before him .  
`` Did I say something wrong , Your Grace ?  
Joffrey gave his uncle a look of pure loathing , then took Sansa 's hands in his own .  
Then she smiled graciously and said , `` Sansa , the good councilors and I must speak together until the king returns with your father .  
I fear we shall have to postpone your day with Myrcella .  
Please give your sweet sister my apologies .  
He took her by the arm and led her away from the wheelhouse , and Sansa 's spirits took flight .  
She gazed at Joffrey worshipfully .  
The way he had rescued her from Ser Ilyn and the Hound , why , it was almost like the songs , like the time Serwyn of the Mirror Shield saved the Princess Daeryssa from the giants , or Prince Aemon the Dragonknight championing Queen Naerys 's honor against evil Ser Morgil 's slanders .  
Be with you , Sansa thought , but she said , `` Whatever you 'd like to do , my prince . ''  
`` Oh , I love riding , '' Sansa said .  
Let us leave them both behind and set off on our own , what do you say ? ''  
`` I suppose I could tie Lady up . ''  
`` I did n't know you had a dog ... '' Joffrey laughed .  
`` He 's my mother 's dog , in truth .  
She has set him to guard me , and so he does . ''  
Her prince would never love her if she seemed stupid .  
I am almost a man grown , and I do n't fight with wood like your brothers .  
He drew his sword and showed it to her ; a longsword adroitly shrunken to suit a boy of twelve , gleaming blue steel , castle-forged and double-edged , with a leather grip and a lion's-head pommel in gold .  
Sansa exclaimed over it admiringly , and Joffrey looked pleased .  
`` I call it Lion 's Tooth , '' he said .  
And so they left her direwolf and his bodyguard behind them , while they ranged east along the north bank of the Trident with no company save Lion 's Tooth .  
The air was warm and heavy with the scent of flowers , and the woods here had a gentle beauty that Sansa had never seen in the north .  
Prince Joffrey 's mount was a blood bay courser , swift as the wind , and he rode it with reckless abandon , so fast that Sansa was hard-pressed to keep up on her mare .  
They explored the caves by the riverbank , and tracked a shadowcat to its lair , and when they grew hungry , Joffrey found a holdfast by its smoke and told them to fetch food and wine for their prince and his lady .  
They dined on trout fresh from the river , and Sansa drank more wine than she had ever drunk before .  
`` My father only lets us have one cup , and only at feasts , '' she confessed to her prince .  
`` My betrothed can drink as much as she wants , '' Joffrey said , refilling her cup .  
They went more slowly after they had eaten .  
Joffrey sang for her as they rode , his voice high and sweet and pure .  
That was where my father killed Rhaegar Targaryen , you know .  
Joffrey swung an imaginary warhammer to show her how it was done .  
`` Then my uncle Jaime killed old Aerys , and my father was king .  
Sansa heard it too , floating through the woods , a kind of wooden clattering , snack snack snack .  
Joffrey turned his horse in the direction of the sounds , and Sansa had no choice but to follow .  
The noises grew louder and more distinct , the clack of wood on wood , and as they grew closer they heard heavy breathing as well , and now and then a grunt .  
She found herself thinking of Lady , wishing the direwolf was with her .  
Joffrey drew his Lion 's Tooth from its sheath .  
When she tried to lunge at him , he caught her stick with his own , swept it aside , and slid his wood down hard on her fingers .  
She cried out and lost her weapon .  
Joffrey glanced from Arya to Sansa and back again .  
He recognized the prince and averted his eyes .  
`` He 's my friend , '' Arya said sharply .  
`` You leave him alone . ''  
`` She ast me to , m'lord , '' Mycah said .  
`` She ast me to . ''  
Sansa had only to glance at Arya and see the flush on her sister 's face to know the boy was telling the truth , but Joffrey was in no mood to listen .  
The wine had made him wild .  
Mycah shook his head .  
It 's not no sword , it 's only a stick . ''  
Joffrey lifted Lion 's Tooth and laid its point on Mycah 's cheek below the eye , as the butcher 's boy stood trembling .  
`` That was my lady 's sister you were hitting , do you know that ? ''  
Mycah ran for the trees as fast as his legs would take him .  
Arya swung at the prince again , but this time Joffrey caught the blow on Lion 's Tooth and sent her broken stick flying from her hands .  
Sansa was shrieking , `` No , no , stop it , stop it , both of you , you 're spoiling it , '' but no one was listening .  
Arya scooped up a rock and hurled it at Joffrey 's head .  
She hit his horse instead , and the blood bay reared and went galloping off after Mycah .  
Joffrey slashed at Arya with his sword , screaming obscenities , terrible words , filthy words .  
Arya darted back , frightened now , but Joffrey followed , hounding her toward the woods , backing her up against a tree .  
Then a grey blur flashed past her , and suddenly Nymeria was there , leaping , jaws closing around Joffrey 's sword arm .  
The steel fell from his fingers as the wolf knocked him off his feet , and they rolled in the grass , the wolf snarling and ripping at him , the prince shrieking in pain .  
Arya said , `` She did n't hurt you ... much . ''  
She picked up Lion 's Tooth where it had fallen , and stood over him , holding the sword with both hands .  
Joffrey made a scared whimpery sound as he looked up at her .  
`` You leave him alone ! ''  
Arya ran off to her horse , Nymeria loping at her heels .  
After they had gone , Sansa went to Prince Joffrey .  
`` Oh , look what they did , look what they did .  
Tenderly she reached out and brushed back his soft blond hair .  
Tell Jory to bring her here at once . ''  
`` The guards on the gate were Lannister men , and they informed the queen when Jory brought her in .  
He had led searches himself for the first three days , and had scarcely slept an hour since Arya had disappeared .  
This morning he had been so heartsick and weary he could scarcely stand , but now his fury was on him , filling him with strength .  
Men called out to him as he crossed the castle yard , but Ned ignored them in his haste .  
He would have run , but he was still the King 's Hand , and a Hand must keep his dignity .  
Ser Raymun lived under the king 's peace , but his family had fought beneath Rhaegar 's dragon banners at the Trident , and his three older brothers had died there , a truth neither Robert nor Ser Raymun had forgotten .  
With king 's men , Darry men , Lannister men , and Stark men all crammed into a castle far too small for them , tensions burned hot and heavy .  
The king had appropriated Ser Raymun 's audience chamber , and that was where Ned found them .  
Too crowded , he thought ; left alone , he and Robert might have been able to settle the matter amicably .  
He went to her , his boots ringing on the stone floor .  
When she saw him , she cried out and began to sob .  
Ned went to one knee and took her in his arms .  
`` We 'll feed you soon enough , '' Ned promised .  
Ser Raymun Darry guarded his look well .  
Lord Renly wore a half smile that might mean anything , and old Ser Barristan was grave ; the rest were Lannister men , and hostile .  
Their only good fortune was that both Jaime Lannister and Sandor Clegane were missing , leading searches north of the Trident .  
He spoke to Robert , but it was Cersei Lannister who answered .  
It seemed best to bring her here and get the business done with quickly . ''  
`` Joff told us what happened , '' the queen said .  
`` You and the butcher boy beat him with clubs while you set your wolf on him . ''  
`` They all attacked me , and she threw Lion 's Tooth in the river ! ''  
Ned noticed that he did not so much as glance at Arya as he spoke .  
As Arya began her story , Ned heard the door open behind him .  
He glanced back and saw Vayon Poole enter with Sansa .  
They stood quietly at the back of the hall as Arya spoke .  
When she got to the part where she threw Joffrey 's sword into the middle of the Trident , Renly Baratheon began to laugh .  
`` Ser Barristan , escort my brother from the hall before he chokes . ''  
Lord Renly stifled his laughter .  
`` Perchance later you 'll tell me how a nine-year-old girl the size of a wet rat managed to disarm you with a broom handle and throw your sword in the river . ''  
As the door swung shut behind him , Ned heard him say , `` Lion 's Tooth , '' and guffaw once more .  
Prince Joffrey was pale as he began his very different version of events .  
He says one thing , she says another . ''  
Ned had heard her version of the story the night Arya had vanished .  
Everything happened so fast , I did n't see ... '' `` You rotten ! ''  
She flew at her sister like an arrow , knocking Sansa down to the ground , pummeling her .  
Jory pulled her off her sister , kicking .  
Sansa was pale and shaking as Ned lifted her back to her feet .  
he asked , but she was staring at Arya , and she did not seem to hear .  
`` Robert , I want her punished . ''  
What would you have me do , whip her through the streets ?  
`` I had not thought you so niggardly .  
The king I 'd thought to wed would have laid a wolfskin across my bed before the sun went down . ''  
It took them all a moment to comprehend her words , but when they did , the king shrugged irritably .  
Her eyes were frightened as they went to her father .  
`` You leave her alone ! ''  
All Ned could do was take her in his arms and hold her while she wept .  
Ned stood , gently disengaging himself from Sansa 's grasp .  
The words tasted of bile in his throat , but he forced them out .  
Cersei Lannister regarded him suspiciously .  
He left the room with his eyes burning and his daughter 's wails echoing in his ears , and found the direwolf pup where they chained her .  
He had never paid much attention to the names the children had picked , but looking at her now , he knew that Sansa had chosen well .  
She looked at him with bright golden eyes , and he ruffled her thick grey fur .  
Shortly , Jory brought him Ice .  
When it was over , he said , `` Choose four men and have them take the body north .  
He reached back and shoved the burden off , and it fell with a thump in front of Ned .  
Bending , Ned pulled back the cloak , dreading the words he would have to find for Arya , but it was not Nymeria after all .  
It seemed as though he had been falling for years .  
Fly , a voice whispered in the darkness , but Bran did not know 'thow to fly , so all he could do was fall .  
Maester Luwin made a little boy of clay , baked him till he was hard and brittle , dressed him in Bran 's clothes , and flung him off a roof .  
Bran remembered the way he shattered .  
The ground was so far below him he could barely make it out through the grey mists that whirled around him , but he could feel how fast he was falling , and he knew what was waiting for him down there .  
He would wake up in the instant before he hit the ground , he knew .  
You always woke up in the instant before you hit the ground .  
`` I ca n't , I ca n't How do you know ?  
Bran looked around to see where it was coming from .  
A crow was spiraling down with him , just out of reach , following him as he fell .  
I 'm trying , the crow replied .  
Bran reached into his pocket as the darkness spun dizzily around him .  
When he pulled his hand out , golden kernels slid from between his fingers into the air .  
`` I 'll wake up when I hit the ground , '' Bran told the bird .  
You 'll die when you hit the ground , the crow said .  
He closed his eyes and began to cry .  
I 'm doing it .  
Bran felt along his shoulders , groping for feathers .  
Forget that , you do not need it now , put it aside , put it away .  
The grey mists howled around him as he plunged toward the earth below .  
Bran looked down , and felt his insides turn to water .  
He saw Winterfell as the eagles see it , the tall towers looking squat and stubby from above , the castle walls just lines in the dirt .  
He saw Maester Luwin on his balcony , studying the sky through a polished bronze tube and frowning as he made notes in a book .  
He saw his brother Robb , taller and stronger than he remembered him , practicing swordplay in the yard with real steel in his hand .  
He saw Hodor , the simple giant from the stables , carrying an anvil to Mikken 's forge , hefting it onto his shoulder as easily as another man might heft a bale of hay .  
When it felt Bran watching , it lifted its eyes from the still waters and stared back at him knowingly .  
He saw his mother sitting alone in a cabin , looking at a bloodstained knife on a table in front of her , as the rowers pulled at their oars and Ser Rodrik leaned across a rail , shaking and heaving .  
He saw his father pleading with the king , his face etched with grief .  
He saw Sansa crying herself to sleep at night , and he saw Arya watching in silence and holding her secrets hard in her heart .  
Over them both loomed a giant in armor made of stone , but when he opened his visor , there was nothing inside but darkness and thick black blood .  
He saw the Wall shining like blue crystal , and his bastard brother Jon sleeping alone in a cold bed , his skin growing pale and hard as the memory of all warmth fled from him .  
He looked deep into the heart of winter , and then he cried out , afraid , and the heat of his tears burned on his cheeks .  
Now you know , the crow whispered as it sat on his shoulder .  
Bran looked at the crow on his shoulder , and the crow looked back .  
Bran spread his arms and flew .  
It took to the air , flapping its wings in his face , slowing him , blinding him .  
Its beak stabbed at him fiercely , and Bran felt a sudden blinding pain in the middle of his forehead , between his eyes .  
The crow opened its beak and cawed at him , a shrill scream of fear , and the grey mists shuddered and swirled around him and ripped away like a veil , and he saw that the crow was really a woman , a serving woman with long black hair , and he knew her from somewhere , from Winterfell , yes , that was it , he remembered her now , and then he realized that he was in Winterfell , in a bed- high in some chilly tower room , and the black-haired woman dropped a basin of water to shatter on the floor and ran down the steps , shouting , `` He 's awake , he 's awake , he 's awake . ''  
Bran touched his forehead , between his eyes .  
He reached out to pet him , his hand trembling like a leaf .  
Catelyn turned away from the rail and forced herself to smile .  
Captain Moreo Turnitis favored her with a half bow .  
He spoke the Common Tongue fluently , with only the slightest hint of a Tyroshi accent .  
She had certainly been the fastest of the ships available in White Harbor when Catelyn and Ser Rodrik Cassel had arrived after their headlong gallop downriver .  
The Tyroshi were notorious for their avarice , and Ser Rodrik had argued for hiring a fishing sloop out of the Three Sisters , but Catelyn had insisted on the galley .  
The winds had been against them much of the voyage , and without the galley 's oars they 'd still be beating their way past the Fingers , instead of skimming toward King 's Landing and journey 's end .  
A shade thinner than he had been when they set out from White Harbor , but almost himself again .  
The strong winds in the Bite and the roughness of the narrow sea had not agreed with him , and he 'd almost gone over the side when the storm seized them unexpectedly off Dragonstone , yet somehow he had clung to a rope until three of Moreo 's men could rescue him and carry him safely below decks .  
Yet back on the Bite it had seemed prudent to submit to a crewman 's razor , after his whiskers had become hopelessly befouled for the third time while he leaned over the rail and retched into the swirling winds .  
He bowed and took his leave of them .  
Catelyn touched his arm .  
She found she had to touch it now and then , to reassure herself .  
Ser Rodrik 's hand went to his face to stroke his whiskers and discovered once again that they were gone .  
`` He may know the blade , yes ... but , my lady , the moment we go ashore we are at risk .  
His face swam up before her ; a boy 's face , though he was a boy no longer .  
His father had died several years before , so he was Lord Petyr Baelish now , yet still they called him Littlefinger .  
Ser Rodrik cleared his throat .  
I thought of him as a brother , but his feelings for me were ... more than brotherly .  
When it was announced that I was to wed Brandon Stark , Petyr challenged for the right to my hand .  
I had to beg Brandon to spare Petyr 's life .  
Afterward my father sent him away .  
She lifted her face to the spray , as if the brisk wind could blow the memories away .  
`` He wrote to me at Riverrun after Brandon was killed , but I burned the letter unread .  
By then I knew that Ned would marry me in his brother 's place . ''  
I wonder what the years have done to him . ''  
Captain Moreo came scrambling across the deck , giving orders , and all around them the Stonn Dancer burst into frenetic activity as King 's Landing slid into view atop its three high hills .  
Three hundred years ago , Catelyn knew , those heights had been covered with forest , and only a handful of fisherfolk had lived on the north shore of the Blackwater Rush where that deep , swift river flowed into the sea .  
Then Aegon the Conqueror had sailed from Dragonstone .  
It was here that his army had put ashore , and there on the highest hill that he built his first crude redoubt of wood and earth .  
Deepwater fishing boats and river runners came and went , ferrymen poled back and forth across the Blackwater Rush , trading galleys unloaded goods from Braavos and Pentos and Lys .  
Aegon the Conqueror had commanded it built .  
His son Maegor 's Holdfast the Cruel had seen it completed .  
Afterward he had taken the heads of every stonemason , woodworker , and builder who had labored on it .  
Only the blood of the dragon would ever know the secrets of the fortress the Dragonlords had built , he vowed .  
She studied the old knight as the galley drew near to a pier .  
I looked at my reflection in the water earlier and scarcely recognized myself .  
I believe I am safe enough , my lady . ''  
As they thumped against the dock , Tyroshi seamen leapt down to tie up .  
`` King 's Landing , my lady , as you did command , and never has a ship made a swifter or surer passage .  
Sixty stags , I believe it was . ''  
`` Though perhaps I should hold it for them until we return to Tyrosh .  
If you give them the silver here , my lady , they will dice it away or spend it all for a night 's pleasure . ''  
Just to be sure , Catelyn paid the oarmen herself , a stag to each man , and a copper to the two men who carried their chests halfway up Visenya 's hill to the inn that Moreo had suggested .  
The woman who owned it was a sour crone with a wandering eye who looked them over suspiciously and bit the coin that Catelyn offered her to make sure it was real .  
`` I think it best if you stay away from the common room , '' Ser Rodrik said , after they had settled in .  
The voyage had been long and fatiguing , and she was no longer as young as she had been .  
She watched Ser Rodrik set off , striding briskly through the busy streets until he was lost in the crowds , then decided to take his advice .  
The bedding was stuffed with straw instead of feathers , but she had no trouble falling asleep .  
She had slept longer than she intended .  
A fist hammered at her door again , and a voice called out , `` Open , in the name of the king . ''  
She wrapped herself in her cloak .  
She snatched it up before she unlatched the heavy wooden door .  
He showed her a ribbon .  
Catelyn felt her breath catch in her throat .  
`` Do you know who I am ? ''  
`` M'lord Littlefinger said only to bring you to him , and see that you were not mistreated . ''  
`` You may wait outside while I dress . ''  
She bathed her hands in the basin and wrapped them in clean linen .  
Were they too late , had the Lannisters reached King 's Landing before her ?  
The Tyroshi knew who they were and where they were , damn him .  
The lamps were being lit along the streets as they set out , and Catelyn felt the eyes of the city on her as she rode , surrounded by the guard in their golden cloaks .  
He was alone in the room , seated at a heavy wooden table , an oil lamp beside him as he wrote .  
When they ushered her inside , he set down his pen and looked at her .  
`` You were not mistreated , I trust , '' he said after they had gone .  
He noticed her bandages .  
`` Your hands ... '' Catelyn ignored the implied question .  
He had been a sly child , but after his mischiefs he always looked contrite ; it was a gift he had .  
The years had not changed him much .  
Petyr had been a small boy , and he had grown into a small man , an inch or two shorter than Catelyn , slender and quick , with the sharp features she remembered and the same laughing grey-green eyes .  
Even as a child , he had always loved his silver .  
`` How did you know I was in the city ? ''  
`` He will be joining us shortly , but I wanted to see you alone first .  
Catelyn ignored his familiarity .  
Oftimes he knows about it before it happens .  
Thankfully , Varys came to me first . ''  
Selmy and Lord Renly rode north to meet Robert , and Lord Stannis is gone to Dragonstone , leaving only Maester Pycelle and me .  
I was ever a friend to your sister Lysa , Varys knows that . ''  
`` Does Varys know about `` Lord Varys knows everything ... except why you are here . ''  
`` A wife is allowed to yearn for her husband , and if a mother needs her daughters close , who can tell her no ? ''  
I know you too well .  
`` Family , Duty , Honor , `` she recited stiffly .  
He did know her too well .  
`` All of which required you to remain in Winterfell , where our Hand left you .  
I beg of you , let me help .  
The fingers are so delicate ... Our good Maester Pycelle makes a marvelous salve , shall I send for a jar ? ''  
Catelyn slid her fingers from his grasp .  
`` I thank you , my lord , but my own Maester Luwin has already seen to my hurts . ''  
I have great esteem for your husband , our new Hand , and I know we do both love King Robert . ''  
`` Never has a king been so beloved as our Robert , '' quipped Littlefinger .  
Say only the word , and I will send for one for your dear Bran . ''  
She trusted Littlefinger only a little , and Varys not at all .  
She would not let them see her grief .  
`` Lord Baelish tells me that I have you to thank for bringing me here . ''  
I suppose I am guilty .  
I hope you forgive me , kind lady . ''  
He eased himself down into a seat and put his hands together .  
`` I wonder if we might trouble you to show us the dagger ? ''  
He was a spider , she thought wildly , an enchanter or worse .  
He knew things no one could possibly know , unless `` What have you done to Ser Rodrik ? ''  
`` I assure you , Lady Stark , nothing at all has been done to the good knight .  
He visited with Ser Aron Santagar in the armory , and they talked of a certain dagger .  
About sunset , they left the castle together and walked to that dreadful hovel where you were staying .  
Ser Rodrik was very distressed to find you gone . ''  
Catelyn pulled it out from beneath her cloak and threw it down on the table in front of him .  
Perhaps your little birds will whisper the name of the man it belongs to . ''  
Blood welled , and he let out a squeal and dropped the dagger back on the table .  
Littlefinger hefted the knife lightly in his hand , testing the grip .  
He flipped it in the air , caught it again with his other hand .  
He grasped the blade between thumb and forefinger , drew it back over his shoulder , and threw it across the room with a practiced flick of his wrist .  
It struck the door and buried itself deep in the oak , quivering .  
Petyr 's sheepish grin made him look half a boy again .  
`` When Loras Tyrell unhorsed him , many of us became a trifle poorer .  
Ser Jaime lost a hundred golden dragons , the queen lost an emerald pendant , and I lost my knife .  
Her Grace got the emerald back , but the winner kept the rest . ''  
Under black wool , boiled leather , and mail , sweat trickled icily down Jon 's chest as he pressed the attack .  
Grenn stumbled backward , defending himself clumsily .  
When he raised his sword , Jon went underneath it with a sweeping blow that crunched against the back of the other boy 's leg and sent him staggering .  
When he tried a sideswing , Jon swept aside his blade and slammed a mailed forearm into his chest .  
Grenn lost his footing and sat down hard in the snow .  
Jon knocked his sword from his fingers with a slash to his wrist that brought a cry of pain .  
Grenn cradled his hand .  
It 's fortunate for you that the Watch needs stableboys as well as rangers . ''  
Ser Alliser gestured at Jeren and Toad .  
`` Get the Aurochs on his feet , he has funeral arrangements to make . ''  
Jon took off his helm as the other boys were pulling Grenn to his feet .  
He leaned on his sword , drew a deep breath , and allowed himself a moment to savor the victory .  
Jon hated that name , a mockery that Ser Alliser had hung on him the first day he came to practice .  
The boys had picked it up , and now he heard it everywhere .  
Thorne strode toward him , crisp black leathers whispering faintly as he moved .  
He had beaten everyone that Ser Alliser had sent against him , yet it gained him nothing .  
Thorne hated him , Jon had decided ; of course , he hated the other boys even worse .  
If the Others ever come for us , I pray they have archers , because you lot are fit for nothing more than arrow fodder . ''  
Pypar used his sword like a dagger , Jeren was weak as a girl , Grenn slow and clumsy .  
Halder 's blows were brutally hard but he ran right into your attacks .  
The more time he spent with them , the more Jon despised them .  
Chunks of coal burned in iron braziers at either end of the long room , but Jon found himself shivering .  
The weariness came on him suddenly , as he donned the roughspun blacks that were their everyday wear .  
He sat on a bench , his fingers fumbling with the fastenings on his cloak .  
There was scant warmth to be found in Castle Black ; the walls were cold here , and the people colder .  
The dwarf had given him the truth on the road north , but by then it had been too late .  
Jon wondered if his father had known what the Wall would be like .  
He must have , he thought ; that only made it hurt the worse .  
He was First Ranger , and he spent his days and nights with Lord Commander Mormont and Maester Aemon and the other high officers , while Jon was given over to the less than tender charge of Ser Alliser Thorne .  
Three days after their arrival , Jon had heard that Benjen Stark was to lead a half-dozen men on a ranging into the haunted forest .  
Benjen refused him curtly .  
`` On the Wall , a man gets only what he earns .  
`` A boy you are , and a boy you 'll remain until Ser Alliser says you are fit to be a man of the Night 's Watch .  
If you thought your Stark blood would win you easy favors , you were wrong .  
We put aside our old families when we swear our vows .  
One of his rangers , a big ugly man , sang a bawdy song as he saddled his garron , his breath steaming in the cold morning air .  
Ben Stark smiled at that , but he had no smile for his nephew .  
`` How often must I tell you no , Jon ?  
We 'll speak when I return . ''  
As he watched his uncle lead his horse into the tunnel , Jon had remembered the things that Tyrion Lannister told him on the kingsroad , and in his mind 's eye he saw Ben Stark lying dead , his blood red on the snow .  
The thought made him sick .  
Afterward he sought out Ghost in the loneliness of his cell , and buried his face in his thick white fur .  
Castle Black had no godswood , only a small sept and a drunken septon , but Jon could not find it in him to pray to any gods , old or new .  
If they were real , he thought , they were as cruel and implacable as winter .  
He missed his true brothers : little Rickon , bright eyes shining as he begged for a sweet ; Robb , his rival and best friend and constant companion ; Bran , stubborn and curious , always wanting to follow and join in whatever Jon and Robb were doing .  
He missed the girls too , even Sansa , who never called him anything but `` my half brother '' since she was old enough to understand what bastard meant .  
And Arya ... he missed her even more than Robb , skinny little thing that she was , all scraped knees and tangled hair and torn clothes , so fierce and willful .  
Arya never seemed to fit , no more than he had ... yet she could always make Jon smile .  
He would give anything to be with her now , to muss up her hair once more and watch her make a face , to hear her finish a sentence with him .  
`` You broke my wrist , bastard boy . ''  
Grenn loomed over him , thick of neck and red of face , with three of his friends behind him .  
He knew Todder , a short ugly boy with an unpleasant voice .  
The other two were the ones Yoren had brought north with them , Jon remembered , rapers taken down in the Fingers .  
He hardly ever spoke , to them , if he could help it .  
All four of them were bigger than he was , but they did not scare him .  
Jon reached back for his sword , but one of them grabbed his arm and twisted it behind his back .  
`` You make us look bad , '' complained Toad .  
`` You looked bad before I ever met you , '' Jon told him .  
Maybe I had her a time or two . ''  
Jon twisted like an eel and slammed a heel down across the instep of the boy holding him .  
He flew at Toad , knocked him backward over a bench , and landed on his chest with both hands on his throat , slamming his head against the packed earth .  
The two from the Fingers pulled him off , throwing him roughly to the ground .  
Jon pulled himself to his feet .  
`` Keep your quarrels out of my armory , or I 'll make them my quarrels .  
`` He tried to kill me . ''  
I saw it , '' one of the rapers put in .  
`` He broke my wrist , '' Grenn said again , holding it out to Noye for inspection .  
Jon sat heavily on the long wooden bench as the others left , oblivious to the looks they gave him , the silent promises of future retribution .  
`` He said my mother was- '' `` a whore .  
`` You go when I tell you to go . ''  
Jon stared sullenly at the smoke rising from the brazier , until Noye took him under the chin , thick fingers twisting his head around .  
`` Look at me when I 'm talking to you , boy . ''  
She was what she was , and nothing Toad says can change that .  
You know , we have men on the Wall whose mothers were whores . ''  
He knew nothing of his mother ; Eddard Stark would not talk of her .  
Yet he dreamed of her at times , so often that he could almost see her face .  
`` You think you had it hard , being a high lord 's bastard ? ''  
Now he commands Eastwatch by the Sea . ''  
`` I do n't care about them and I do n't care about you or Thorne or Benjen Stark or any of it .  
I hate it here .  
It 's too ... it 's cold . ''  
They said it was Donal Noye who 'd forged King Robert 's warhammer , the one that crushed the life from Rhaegar Targaryen on the Trident .  
He 'd done all the things that Jon would never do , and then when he was old , well past thirty , he 'd taken a glancing blow from an axe and the wound had festered until the whole arm had to come off .  
Only then , crippled , had Donal Noye come to the Wall , when his life was all but over .  
`` A long life or a short one , it 's up to you , Snow .  
`` They hate me because I 'm better than they are . ''  
They hate you because you act like you 're better than they are .  
They look at you and see a castle-bred bastard who thinks he 's a lordling . ''  
You 're a Snow , not a Stark .  
I 've watched you fight .  
Put a good edge on your sword , and they 'd be dead meat ; you know it , I know it , they know it .  
He did feel proud when he won .  
But the armorer was taking that away too , making it sound as if he were doing something wrong .  
He felt it closing around him .  
What they know of fighting they learned between decks , in the alleys of Oldtown and Shield of Lannisport , in wayside brothels and taverns on the kingsroad .  
They may have clacked a few sticks together before they came here , but I promise you , not one in twenty was ever rich enough to own a real sword . ''  
Jon said sharply , but the force had gone out of his anger .  
`` I never ... I did n't think ... '' `` Best you start thinking , '' Noye warned him .  
He turned his back on it and lifted his eyes to the Wall , blazing blue and crystalline in the sunlight .  
Centuries of windblown dirt had pocked and scoured it , covering it like a film , and it often seemed a pale grey , the color of an overcast sky ... but when the sun caught it fair on a bright day , it shone , alive with light , a colossal blue-white cliff that filled up half the sky .  
The largest structure ever built by the hands of man , Benjen Stark had told Jon on the kingsroad when they had first caught sight of the Wall in the distance .  
Lacking walls , it could not be defended , not from the south , or east , or west ; but it was only the north that concerned the Night 's Watch , and to the north loomed the Wall .  
Almost seven hundred feet high it stood , three times the height of the tallest tower in the stronghold it sheltered .  
As he stood outside the armory looking up , Jon felt almost as overwhelmed as he had that day on the kingsroad , when he 'd seen it for the first time .  
Sometimes he could almost forget that it was there , the way you forgot about the sky or the earth underfoot , but there were other times when it seemed as if there was nothing else in the world .  
It was older than the Seven Kingdoms , and when he stood beneath it and looked up , it made Jon dizzy .  
He could feel the great weight of all that ice pressing down on him , as if it were about to topple , and somehow Jon knew that if it fell , the world fell with it .  
I did n't see-I mean , I thought I was alone . ''  
Tyrion Lannister was bundled in furs so thickly he looked like a very small bear .  
The Lord Commander had given him rooms in the King 's Tower-so-called , though no king had visited it for a hundred years and Lannister dined at Mormont 's own table and spent his days riding the Wall and his nights dicing and drinking with Ser Alliser and Steward Bowen Marsh and the other high officers .  
`` Oh , I learn things everywhere I go . ''  
He cocked his head and looked at Jon with his curious mismatched eyes .  
He wanted to ride with Benjen Stark on his rangings , deep into the mysteries of the haunted forest , wanted to fight Mance Rayder 's wildlings and ward the realm against the Others , but it was better not to speak of the things you wanted .  
`` The rangers say it 's just woods and mountains and frozen lakes , with lots of snow and ice . ''  
`` Let us not forget them , Lord Snow , or else what 's that big thing for ? ''  
Let them see that their words can cut you , and you 'll never be free of the mockery .  
If they want to give you a name , take it , make it your own .  
Then they ca n't hurt you with it anymore . ''  
Jon was hungry too , so he fell in beside Lannister and slowed his pace to match the dwarf 's awkward , waddling steps .  
`` I chain him up in the old stables when we 're training .  
I thought all those buildings had been abandoned . ''  
`` No one cares where you sleep .  
Once Castle Black had housed five thousand fighting men with all their horses and servants and weapons .  
Now it was home to a tenth that number , and parts of it were falling into ruin .  
The Watch had built nineteen great strongholds along the Wall , but only three were still occupied : Eastwatch on its grey windswept shore , the Shadow Tower hard by the mountains where the Wall ended , and Castle Black between them , at the end of the kingsroad .  
`` It 's better that I 'm by myself , '' Jon said stubbornly .  
Jon remembered the wish he 'd wished in his anger , the vision of Benjen Stark dead in the snow , and he looked away quickly .  
The dwarf had a way of sensing things , and Jon did not want him to see the guilt in his eyes .  
`` He said he 'd be back by my name day , '' he admitted .  
Uncle Benjen said they might search as far as the Shadow Tower .  
Jon heard their cries overhead as he accepted a bowl of stew and a heel of black bread from the day 's cooks .  
Jon eyed them thoughtfully for a moment .  
Tyrion Lannister sat across from him , sniffing at the stew suspiciously .  
Jon pulled off his gloves and warmed his hands in the steam rising from the bowl .  
Jon knew Alliser Thorne 's voice , but there was a curious note in it that he had not heard before .  
They had heard something about Benjen , he thought wildly , he was dead , the vision had come true .  
`` And I am not accustomed to having my commands questioned by bastards . ''  
You have no place here . ''  
Now tell Snow why the Old Bear needs to see him .  
He was running by the time he hit the doors .  
When the guards passed him , he took the tower steps two at a time .  
He had a raven on his arm , and he was feeding it kernels of corn .  
He shook the raven off , and it flapped its wings and flew to the window , where it sat watching as Mormont drew a roll of paper from his belt and handed it to Jon .  
He recognized Robb 's hand , but the letters seemed to blur and run as he tried to read them .  
He realized he was crying .  
And then , through the tears , he found the sense in the words , and raised his head .  
He looked at the words , but they did n't matter .  
Jon ran down the stairs , a smile on his face and Robb 's letter in his hand .  
He ran back to the common hall , where he found Tyrion Lannister just finishing his meal .  
He grabbed the little man under the arms , hoisted him up in the air , and spun him around in a circle .  
Jon put him down and thrust the paper into his hands .  
`` Stay away from me now , you bastard . ''  
Robb used the same move on me once , only with a wooden blade .  
`` Lord Snow wants to take my place now . ''  
Jon heard Grenn suck in his breath , shocked .  
The birds stirred in the rafters , and finally even Grenn began to chuckle .  
Ser Alliser never took his eyes from Jon .  
He was still a horse , dreaming of a long hot soak , a roast fowl , and a featherbed , when the king 's steward told him that Grand Maester Pycelle had convened an urgent meeting of the small council .  
`` We have given you Lord Arryn 's former chambers in the Tower of the Hand , if it please you .  
Ned saw Vayon Poole , his own steward , and called out .  
`` It seems the council has urgent need of me .  
See that my daughters find their bedchambers , and tell Jory to keep them there .  
The councillor Ned liked least , the eunuch Varys , accosted him the moment he entered .  
His hand left powder stains on Ned 's sleeve , and he smelled as foul and sweet as flowers on a grave .  
He disentangled himself from the eunuch 's grip and crossed the room to where Lord Renly stood by the screen , talking quietly with a short man who could only be Littlefinger .  
Renly had been a boy of eight when Robert won the throne , but he had grown into a man so like his brother that Ned found it disconcerting .  
Whenever he saw him , it was as if the years had slipped away and Robert stood before him , fresh from his victory on the Trident .  
`` I see you have arrived safely , Lord Stark , '' Renly said .  
`` You must forgive me , but sometimes you look the very image of your brother Robert . ''  
He eyed Ned with a smile on his lips that bordered on insolence .  
`` I have hoped to meet you for some years , Lord Stark .  
No doubt Lady Catelyn has mentioned me to you . ''  
`` I understand you knew my brother Brandon as well . ''  
Did Brandon speak of me too ? ''  
He had no patience with this game they played , this dueling with words .  
`` Here in the south , they say you are all made of ice , and melt when you ride below the Neck . ''  
Ned moved to the council table and said , `` Maester Pycelle , I trust you are well . ''  
`` I fear I shall fall asleep if we wait much longer . ''  
As the others took their accustomed seats , it struck Eddard Stark forcefully that he did not belong here , in this room , with these men .  
He remembered what Robert had told him in the crypts below Winterfell .  
He thought he knew already .  
`` Lord Stannis took himself to Dragonstone not long after the king went north , '' Varys said , '' and our gallant Ser Barristan no doubt rides beside the king as he makes his way through the city , as befits the Lord Commander of the Kingsguard . ''  
`` Perhaps we had best wait for Ser Barristan and the king to join us , '' Ned suggested .  
`` If we wait for my brother to grace us with his royal presence , it could be a long sit . ''  
`` He entrusts some small matters to us , to lighten his load . ''  
He drew a tightly rolled paper from his sleeve and laid it on the table .  
`` This morning he commanded me to ride ahead with all haste and ask Grand Maester Pycelle to convene this council at once .  
That means cooks , carpenters , serving girls , singers , jugglers , fools `` Fools we have in plenty , '' Lord Renly said .  
You know as well as I that the treasury has been empty for years .  
The Lannisters are the biggest part of it , but we have also borrowed from Lord Tyrell , the Iron Bank of Braavos , and several Tyroshi trading cartels .  
`` Aerys Targaryen left a treasury flowing with gold .  
The king and the Hand spend it . ''  
`` I will not believe that Jon Arryn allowed Robert to beggar the realm , '' Ned said hotly .  
`` Lord Arryn was a prudent man , but I fear that His Grace does not always listen to wise counsel . ''  
Let us call a halt for today and resume when we are fresher . ''  
He had only to look at Sansa 's face to feel the rage twisting inside him once again .  
Sansa blamed Arya and told her that it should have been Nymeria who died .  
And Arya was lost after she heard what had happened to her butcher 's boy .  
Sansa cried herself to sleep , Arya brooded silently all day long , and Eddard Stark dreamed of a frozen hell reserved for the Starks of Winterfell .  
He crossed the outer yard , passed under a portcullis into the inner bailey , and was walking toward what he thought was the Tower of the Hand when Littlefinger appeared in front of him .  
`` Did I say it was ?  
I 'm leading you to the dungeons to slit your throat and seal your corpse up behind a wall , '' Littlefinger replied , his voice dripping with sarcasm .  
Ned followed him warily , wondering if this day would ever end .  
He had no taste for these intrigues , but he was beginning to realize that they were meat and mead to a man like Littlefinger .  
Petyr Baelish lifted the crossbar and gestured Ned through .  
The niches were there , as Littlefinger had promised , shallow cuts that would be invisible from below , unless you knew just where to look for them .  
Ned kept his face pressed to the rock and tried not to look down any more often than he had to .  
`` You 've brought me all this way to take me to a brothel . ''  
He was dressed in brown roughspun , and the soft flesh under his chin wobbled as he ran .  
`` Your lady awaits you upstairs . ''  
He sheathed his blade .  
Ser Rodrik waited below while Littlefinger led him up to the third floor , along a corridor , and through a door .  
She cried out when she saw him , ran to him , and embraced him fiercely .  
`` You recognized her . ''  
`` Petyr has been bringing me reports .  
He told me of your troubles with Arya and the young prince .  
`` Cat , I do not understand .  
Ned asked his wife .  
Is he ... '' Dead was the word that came to his lips , but he could not say it .  
`` It is Bran , but not as you think , '' Catelyn said .  
`` Just what it appears , '' Littlefinger said , easing himself onto a window seat .  
`` As it chances , I own this particular establishment , so arrangements were easily made .  
He saw her hands then , the awkward way she held them , the raw red scars , the stiffness of the last two fingers on her left .  
He took her hands in his own , turned them over .  
Catelyn slid a dagger out from under her cloak and placed it in his hand .  
`` Let me tell it all , my love .  
So he listened , and she told it all , from the fire in the library tower to Varys and the guardsmen and Littlefinger .  
And when she was done , Eddard Stark sat dazed beside the table , the dagger in his hand .  
Bran 's wolf had saved the boy 's life , he thought dully .  
What was it that Jon had said when they found the pups in the snow ?  
And he had killed Sansa 's , and for what ?  
Was it guilt he was feeling ?  
If the gods had sent these wolves , what folly had he done ?  
Painfully , Ned forced his thoughts back to the dagger and what it meant .  
His hand curled around the smooth dragonbone hilt , and he slammed the blade into the table , felt it bite into the wood .  
`` Why should Tyrion Lannister want Bran dead ?  
`` Do you Starks have nought but snow between your ears ? ''  
Yet even as he said the words , he remembered that chill morning on the barrowlands , and Robert 's talk of sending hired knives after the Targaryen princess .  
He remembered Rhaegar 's infant son , the red ruin of his skull , and the way the king had turned away , as he had turned away in Darry 's audience hall not so long ago .  
He could still hear Sansa pleading , as Lyanna had pleaded once .  
The queen ... if you can find proof , and if you can make Robert listen , then perhaps ... `` We have proof , '' Ned said .  
Littlefinger flipped the knife casually end over end .  
The Imp will no doubt swear the blade was lost or stolen while he was at Winterfell , and with his hireling dead , who is there to give him the lie ? ''  
He tossed the knife lightly to Ned .  
Ned regarded him coldly .  
`` Lord Baelish , I am a Stark of Winterfell .  
He would be dead , and Catelyn with him , but for a wolf pup we found in the snow .  
If you truly believe I could forget that , you are as big a fool now as when you took up sword against my brother . ''  
`` A fool I may be , Stark ... yet I 'm still here , while your brother has been moldering in his frozen grave for some fourteen years now .  
If you are so eager to molder beside him , far be it from me to dissuade you , but I would rather not be included in the party , thank you very much . ''  
`` You wound me deeply . ''  
`` For my part , I always found you Starks a tiresome lot , but Cat seems to have become attached to you , for reasons I can not comprehend .  
`` I should warn you , Stark , we usually charge for that sort of thing around here . ''  
It is past time the Hand and I returned to the castle , before our absence is noted . ''  
Catelyn went to him and took his hands in her own .  
`` I will not forget the help you gave me , Petyr .  
When your men came for me , I did not know whether they were taking me to a friend or an enemy .  
I have spent years convincing the court that I am wicked and cruel , and I should hate to see all that hard work go for naught . ''  
Ned believed not a word of that , but he kept his voice polite as he said , `` You have my thanks as well , Lord Baelish . ''  
When the door had closed behind him , Ned turned back to his wife .  
Instruct Lord Lords Manderly that he is to strengthen and repair all his defenses at White Harbor , and see that they are well manned .  
He took her in his arms again .  
`` The Lannisters are merciless in the face of weakness , as Aerys Targaryen learned to his sorrow , but they would not dare attack the north without all the power of the realm behind them , and that they shall not have .  
Remember why I came here , my love .  
If I find proof that the Lannisters murdered Jon Arryn ... He felt Catelyn tremble in his arms .  
`` When I know the truth , I must go to Robert . ''  
And pray that he is the man I think he is , he finished silently , and not the man I fear he has become .  
Are you certain that you must leave us so soon ? ''  
He may decide that you have convinced me to take the black . ''  
Mormont picked up a crab claw and cracked it in his fist .  
As they laughed , he sucked the meat from a crab leg and reached for another .  
The crabs had arrived from Eastwatch-by-the-Sea only this morning , packed in a barrel of snow , and they were succulent .  
`` Lannister mocks us . ''  
Perhaps you and I should visit the yard together . ''  
`` Why , I have steel in my hand , Ser Alliser , although it appears to be a crab fork .  
Ser Alliser Thorne walked from the room so stiffly it looked as though he had a dagger up his butt .  
Tyrion pounded him on the back .  
`` I claim Thorne 's share of the crabs . ''  
`` You are a wicked man , to provoke our Ser Alliser so , '' he scolded .  
`` You ought to hear the droll names he gives the lads he trains . ''  
And a face as noble as yours , well , no doubt he saw you decorating the city wall above the King 's Gate .  
Lord Commander Mormont cleared his throat .  
`` Sometimes I fear Ser Alliser saw you true , Tyrion .  
You do mock us and our noble purpose here . ''  
`` We all need to be mocked from time to time , Lord Mormont , lest we start to take ourselves too seriously .  
As Rykker filled it for him , Bowen Marsh said , `` You have a great thirst for a small man . ''  
`` Oh , I think that Lord Tyrion is quite a large man , '' Maester Aemon said from the far end of the table .  
He spoke softly , yet the high officers of the Night 's Watch all fell quiet , the better to hear what the ancient had to say .  
`` I think he is a giant come among us , here at the end of the world . ''  
For once , Tyrion Lannister found himself at a loss for words .  
Much later , when the serious business of eating was done and the others had left , Mormont offered Tyrion a chair beside the fire and a cup of mulled spirits so strong they brought tears to his eyes .  
`` I have Jyck and Morrec , '' Tyrion said , `` and Yoren is riding south again . ''  
My own blood kin ... my sister Maege Mormont rules Bear Island now , since my son 's dishonor .  
I have nieces I have never seen . ''  
The strong drink was making Tyrion light- headed , but not so drunk that he did not realize that the Old Bear wanted something from him .  
`` I hope I can repay your kindness . ''  
`` I sent Benjen Stark to search after Yohn Royce 's son , lost on his first ranging .  
The Royce boy was green as summer grass , yet he insisted on the honor of his own command , saying it was his due as a knight .  
I did not wish to offend his lord father , so I yielded .  
I sent him out with two men I deemed as good as any in the Watch .  
Doubtless Robert old Mormont would take it amiss if he throttled the creature .  
I should never have believed it , not of him , but Lord Eddard sent me his head from Winterfell .  
Too old and too weary for the burden I bear , yet if I set it down , who will pick it up ?  
I would have to be as blind as Maester Aemon not to see what they are .  
Once the Watch spent its summers building , and each Lord Commander raised the Wall higher than he found it .  
He was in deadly earnest , Tyrion realized .  
Lord Mormont had spent a good part of his life on the Wall , and he needed to believe if those years were to have any meaning .  
He left the rest unsaid ; that King Robert would ignore him , Lord Tywin would ask if he had taken leave of his senses , and Jaime would only laugh .  
He had been born in the dead of winter , a terrible cruel one that the maesters said had lasted near three years , but Tyrion 's earliest memories were of spring .  
Perhaps we 've been better than we thought , and the Great Summer is finally at hand . ''  
Mormont reached out and clutched Tyrion tightly by the hand .  
`` You must make them understand .  
Tell the king what I say , I pray you . Winter  
`` The gods help me if I do not get some sleep tonight .  
`` I thank you for all the courtesies you have done me , Lord Mormont . ''  
Tell them and make them believe .  
He whistled , and his raven flew to him and perched on his shoulder .  
Mormont smiled and gave the bird some corn from his pocket , and that was how Tyrion left him .  
He set off across the yard for his own chambers in the King 's Tower , walking as briskly as his legs could manage .  
He shoved his hands into his armpits and walked faster , praying that Morrec had remembered to warm his bed with hot bricks from the fire .  
Behind the King 's Tower , the Wall glimmered in the light of the moon , immense and mysterious .  
It would be his last chance , he thought ; tomorrow he would ride south , and he could not imagine why he would ever want to return to this frozen desolation .  
The King 's Tower was before him , with its promise of warmth and a soft bed , yet Tyrion found himself walking past it , toward the vast pale palisade of the Wall .  
The black brothers assured him that it was much stronger than it looked , but Tyrion 's legs were cramping too badly for him to even contemplate the ascent .  
He had to wait what seemed an eternity , standing there inside the bars with the Wall to his back .  
Long enough for Tyrion to begin to wonder why he was doing this .  
He had just about decided to forget his sudden whim and go to bed when the cage gave a jerk and began to ascend .  
The ground fell away beneath him , the cage swung , and Tyrion wrapped his hands around the iron bars .  
Morrec had a fire burning in his room , he noted with approval , but the Lord Commander 's tower was dark .  
The Old Bear had more sense than he did , it seemed .  
Finally a thick voice behind him said , `` Seven hells , it 's the dwarf , '' and the cage jerked to a sudden stop and hung there , swinging slowly back and forth , the ropes creaking .  
Tyrion waited until the swinging had stopped before he pushed open the cage door and hopped down onto the ice .  
Their faces were muffled in woolen scarves so only their eyes showed , and they were plump with layers of wool and leather , black on black .  
The top of the Wall was wider than the kingsroad often was , so Tyrion had no fear of falling , although the footing was slicker than he would have liked .  
West , he decided , for no special reason , and he began to walk that way , following the pathway nearest the north edge , where the gravel looked freshest .  
His bare cheeks were ruddy with the cold , and his legs complained more loudly with every step , but Tyrion ignored them .  
`` If I halt too long I 'll freeze in place , Jon , '' he said as a shaggy pale shape slid toward him silently and sniffed at his furs .  
He looked bigger and heavier in his layers of fur and leather , the hood of his cloak pulled down over his face .  
If I touch Ghost , will he chew my hand off ? ''  
Another year , and Tyrion had the gloomy feeling he 'd be looking up at him .  
`` Besides freezing your manhood off ... '' `` I have drawn night guard , '' Jon said .  
He seems to think that if they keep me awake half the night , I 'll fall asleep during morning drill .  
So far I have disappointed him . ''  
He saw me working with Grenn and asked for help .  
Will you walk with me ? ''  
`` The watch commander tells me I must walk , to keep my blood from freezing , but he never said how fast . ''  
They walked , with Ghost pacing along beside Jon like a white shadow .  
`` I plan to stop at Winterfell on the way south .  
If there is any message that you would like me to deliver ... '' `` Tell Robb that I 'm going to command the Night 's Watch and keep him safe , so he might as well take up needlework with the girls and have Mikken melt down his sword for horseshoes . ''  
`` I decline to deliver any message that might get me killed . ''  
`` Rickon will ask when I 'm coming home .  
Tell him he can have all my things while I 'm away , he 'll like that . ''  
I am no maester , to ease his pain .  
I have no spells to give him back his legs . ''  
`` You gave me help when I needed it , '' Jon Snow said .  
`` Then give your words to Bran too . ''  
Still , I know what it is to love a brother , Lord Snow .  
He pulled off his glove and offered his bare hand .  
He pulled a glove off with his teeth and clasped Snow by the hand , flesh against flesh .  
When he had donned his glove again , Jon Snow turned abruptly and walked to the low , icy northern parapet .  
Tyrion had heard that elsewhere along the Wall , between the three fortresses , the wildwood had come creeping back over the decades , that there were places where greygreen sentinels and pale white weirwoods had taken root in the shadow of the Wall itself , but Castle Black had a prodigious appetite for firewood , and here the forest was still kept at bay by the axes of the black brothers .  
From up here Tyrion could see it , the dark trees looming beyond the stretch of open ground , like a second wall built parallel to the first , a wall of night .  
Out there the trees grew huge , and the rangers said they seemed to brood and knew not men .  
It was small wonder the Night 's Watch named it the haunted forest .  
As he stood there and looked at all that darkness with no fires burning anywhere , with the wind blowing and the cold like a spear in his guts , Tyrion Lannister felt as though he could almost believe the talk of the Others , the enemy in the night .  
`` The first night they sent me up here , I thought , Uncle Benjen will ride back tonight , and I 'll see him first and blow the horn .  
He put his hand on the direwolf 's head .  
Arya could see it on his face when he came to table , late again , as he had been so often .  
They called it that to set it apart from the Great Hall , where the king could feast a thousand , but it was a long room with a high vaulted ceiling and bench space for two hundred at its trestle tables .  
He rose to his feet , and the rest of the guard rose with him .  
`` I see you have started without me .  
She was seated between Septa Mordane and Jeyne Poole , as far from Arya as she could get without drawing a reproach from Father .  
`` You know my feelings , Sansa .  
It seems I must arrange Robert 's games and pretend to be honored for his sake .  
He saw Arya .  
She knew Prince Joffrey would be there , and she hated Prince Joffrey .  
Sansa lifted her head .  
Sansa bit her lip and nodded .  
Arya lowered her face to stare sullenly at her plate .  
`` Pray excuse me , '' her father announced to the table .  
`` I find I have small appetite tonight . ''  
After he was gone , Sansa exchanged excited whispers with Jeyne Poole .  
Down the table Jory laughed at a joke , and Hullen started in about horseflesh .  
The men had heard it all before ; Desmond , Jacks , and Hullen 's son Harwin shouted him down together , and Porther called for more wine .  
She liked it that way .  
She would have eaten her meals alone in her bedchamber if they let her .  
Sometimes they did , when Father had to dine with the king or some lord or the envoys from this place or that place .  
The rest of the time , they ate in his solar , just him and her and Sansa .  
That was when Arya missed her brothers most .  
She wanted to tease Bran and play with baby Rickon and have Robb smile at her .  
She wanted Jon to muss up her hair and call her `` little sister '' and finish her sentences with her .  
She had no one left but Sansa , and Sansa would n't even talk to her unless Father made her .  
Back at Winterfell , they had eaten in the Great Hall almost half the time .  
Her father used to say that a lord needed to eat with his men , if he hoped to keep them .  
At Winterfell , he always had an extra seat set at his own table , and every day a different man would be asked to join him .  
The next time it would be Mikken , and her father would listen to him go on about armor and swords and how hot a forge should be and the best way to temper steel .  
Another day it might be Hullen with his endless horse talk , or Septon Chayle from the library , or Jory , or Ser Rodrik , or even Old Nan with her stories .  
She had loved listening to the men on the benches too ; to freeriders tough as leather , courtly knights and bold young squires , grizzled old men-at-arms .  
She used to throw snowballs at them and help them steal pies from the kitchen .  
Their wives gave her scones and she invented names for their babies and played monsters-and-maidens and hide-the-treasure and come-into-my-castle with their children .  
Fat Tom used to call her `` Arya Underfoot , '' because he said that was where she always was .  
Arya hated it .  
She hated the sounds of their voices now , the way they laughed , the stories they told .  
They 'd been her friends , she 'd felt safe around them , but now she knew that was a lie .  
They 'd let the queen kill Lady , that was horrible enough , but then the Hound found Mycah .  
Jeyne Poole had told Arya that he 'd cut him up in so many pieces that they 'd given him back to the butcher in a bag , and at first the poor man had thought it was a pig they 'd slaughtered .  
Arya looked at them and felt ill. She pushed away from the table .  
`` Pray , where do you think you are going , young lady ? ''  
Arya found it an effort to remember her courtesies .  
`` May I be excused , please ? ''  
`` You clean it ! ''  
Before anyone could stop her , Arya bolted for the door as the men laughed and Septa Mordane called loudly after her , her voice rising higher and higher .  
He blinked when he saw Arya rushing toward him and heard the septa 's shouts .  
Her bedchamber was the only place that Arya liked in all of King 's Landing , and the thing she liked best about it was the door , a massive slab of dark oak with black iron bands .  
When she slammed that door and dropped the heavy crossbar , nobody could get into her room , not Septa Mordane or Fat Tom or Sansa or Jory or the Hound , nobody !  
She slammed it now .  
Sansa said so , and Jeyne too .  
A moment later she heard him going away .  
She knelt , opened the lid , and began pulling her clothes out with both hands , grabbing handfuls of silk and satin and velvet and wool and tossing them on the floor .  
Arya lifted it out almost tenderly and drew the slender blade from its sheath .  
She thought of Mycah again and her eyes filled with tears .  
If she had never asked him to play at swords with her ... There was a pounding at her door , louder than before .  
`` Arya Stark , you open this door at once , do you hear me ? ''  
She slashed at the air savagely .  
`` You will rue this insolent behavior , young lady , I promise you that .  
Arya listened at the door until she heard the sound of the septa 's receding footsteps .  
If only she could climb like Bran , she thought ; she would go out the window and down the tower , run away from this horrible place , away from Sansa and Septa Mordane and Prince Joffrey , from all of them .  
She could find Nymeria in the wild woods below the Trident , and together they 'd return to Winterfell , or run to Jon on the Wall .  
She found herself wishing that Jon was here with her now .  
`` May I come in ? ''  
Arya nodded , then dropped her eyes , ashamed .  
Arya had almost forgotten Needle , in her hand .  
Reluctantly Arya surrendered her sword , wondering if she would ever hold it again .  
`` Yet it seems to me that I know this maker 's mark .  
She lowered her eyes .  
`` My nine-year-old daughter is being armed from my own forge , and I know nothing of it .  
The Hand of the King is expected to rule the Seven Kingdoms , yet it seems I can not even rule my own household .  
How is it that you come to own a sword , Arya ?  
Arya chewed her lip and said nothing .  
After a while , Father said , `` I do n't suppose it matters , truly . ''  
What would Septa Mordane say if she knew you were playing with swords ? ''  
`` I hate Septa Mordane . ''  
`` The septa is doing no more than is her duty , though gods know you have made it a struggle for the poor woman .  
Your mother and I have charged her with the impossible task of making you a lady . ''  
Lyanna had a touch of it , and my brother Brandon more than a touch .  
Arya heard sadness in his voice ; he did not often speak of his father , or of the brother and sister who had died before she was born .  
You remind me of her sometimes .  
He lifted the sword , held it out between them .  
`` Arya , what did you think to do with this ... Needle ?  
All she could think of was the lesson Jon had given her .  
`` That is the essence of it , I suppose . ''  
Arya desperately wanted to explain , to make him see .  
`` I asked Mycah to practice with me . ''  
`` It was my fault , it was me ... '' Suddenly her father 's arms were around her .  
He held her gently as she turned to him and sobbed against his chest .  
That murder lies at the Hound 's door , him and the cruel woman he serves . ''  
Joffrey lied , it was n't the way he said .  
I hate Sansa too .  
She did remember , she just lied so Joffrey would like her . ''  
`` Or did you truly think I 'd believe that Nymeria ran off ? ''  
`` Jory kept his word , '' her father said with a smile .  
`` I told her to run , to go be free , that I did n't want her anymore .  
There were other wolves for her to play with , we heard them howling , and Jory said the woods were full of game , so she 'd have deer to hunt .  
Only she kept following , and finally we had to throw rocks .  
I hit her twice .  
She whined and looked at me and I felt so 'shamed , but it was right , was n't it ?  
He 'd put Needle aside when he went to Arya to embrace her .  
Now he took the blade up again and walked to the window , where he stood for a moment , looking out across the courtyard .  
He seated himself on the window seat , Needle across his lap .  
You know our words . ''  
`` Winter is coming , `` Arya whispered .  
`` We tasted them on the Trident , child , and when Bran fell .  
You were born in the long summer , sweet one , you 've never known anything else , but now the winter is truly coming .  
She hugged her knees against her chest , suddenly afraid .  
`` Let me tell you something about wolves , child .  
So if you must hate , Arya , hate those who would truly do us harm .  
You need her , as she needs you ... and I need both of you , gods help me . ''  
He sounded so tired that it made Arya sad .  
`` I do n't hate Sansa , '' she told him .  
`` I do not mean to frighten you , but neither will I lie to you .  
We have enemies who mean us ill. We can not fight a war among ourselves .  
She had never loved him so much as she did in that instant .  
He held Needle out to her , hilt first .  
For a moment she was afraid to touch it , afraid that if she reached for it it would be snatched away again , but then her father said , `` Go on , it 's yours , '' and she took it in her hand .  
`` If I took it away , no doubt I 'd find a morningstar hidden under your pillow within the fortnight .  
Arya clutched Needle tightly to her chest as her father took his leave .  
The next morning , as they broke their fast , she apologized to Septa Mordane and asked for her pardon .  
The septa peered at her suspiciously , but Father nodded .  
Three days later , at midday , her father 's steward Vayon Poole sent Arya to the Small Hall .  
He had an accent , the lilt of the Free Cities , Braavos perhaps , or Myr .  
She grabbed for it , missed , and heard it clatter to the floor .  
Arya picked it up and clutched it nervously with both hands , holding it out in front of her .  
Arya took her right hand off the grip and wiped her sweaty palm on her pants .  
You are skinny as the shaft of a spear , do you know .  
He moved closer and peered at her hand , prying her fingers apart , rearranging them .  
`` What if I drop it ? ''  
Nine years Tell Syrio Forel was first sword to the Sealord of Braavos , he knows these things .  
It was the third time he had called her `` boy . ''  
He clicked his teeth together .  
You are not holding a battle-axe , you are holding a- '' `` -- needle , `` Arya finished for him , fiercely .  
When you pierce them , the water leaks out and they die . ''  
He took a step backward , raised his own wooden blade .  
`` Now you will try to strike me ... Arya tried to strike him .  
She tried for four hours , until every muscle in her body was sore and aching , while Syrio Forel clicked his teeth together and told her what to do .  
`` You ought to see it when it blooms , all dark red flowers from horizon to horizon , like a sea of blood .  
Down in the Shadow Lands beyond Asshai , they say there are oceans of ghost grass , taller than a man on horseback with stalks as pale as milkglass .  
`` It 's so beautiful here , I do n't want to think about everything dying . ''  
She and Mormont had outdistanced the rest of their party , and now the others were climbing the ridge below them .  
Her handmaid Irri and the young archers of her khas were fluid as centaurs , but Viserys still struggled with the short stirrups and the flat saddle .  
Magister Illyrio had urged him to wait in Pentos , had offered him the hospitality of his manse , but Viserys would have none of it .  
He would stay with Drogo until the debt had been paid , until he had the crown he had been promised .  
`` And if he tries to cheat me , he will learn to his sorrow what it means to wake the dragon , '' Viserys had vowed , laying a hand on his borrowed sword .  
Dany realized that she did not want to listen to any of her brother 's complaints right now .  
The grass sea swayed and sighed with each breath of wind , the air was warm on her face , and Dany felt at peace .  
She would not let Viserys spoil it .  
Tell them I command it . ''  
`` A khaleesi. `` She wheeled her horse about and galloped down the ridge alone .  
The descent was steep and rocky , but Dany rode fearlessly , and the joy and the danger of it were a song in her heart .  
All her life Viserys had told her she was a princess , but not until she rode her silver had Daenerys Targaryen ever felt like one .  
The khalasar had broken camp the morning after her wedding , moving east toward Vaes Dothrak , and by the third day Dany thought she was going to die .  
By the time dusk fell , her handmaids would need to help her down from her mount .  
Khal Drogo ignored her when they rode , even as he had ignored her during their wedding , and spent his evenings drinking with his warriors and bloodriders , racing his prize horses , watching women dance and men die .  
Yet every night , some time before the dawn , Drogo would come to her tent and wake her in the dark , to ride her as relentlessly as he rode his stallion .  
He always took her from behind , Dothraki fashion , for which Dany was grateful ; that way her lord husband could not see the tears that wet her face , and she could use her pillow to muffle her cries of pain .  
Day followed day , and night followed night , until Dany knew she could not endure a moment longer .  
She would kill herself rather than go on , she decided one night ... Yet when she slept that night , she dreamt the dragon dream again .  
Its eyes were pools of molten magma , and when it opened its mouth , the flame came roaring out in a hot jet .  
She could hear it singing to her , She opened her arms to the fire , embraced it , let it swallow her whole , let it cleanse her and temper her and scour her clean .  
`` Khaleesi , `` Jhiqui said , `` what is wrong ?  
The stone felt strangely warm beneath her fingers ... or was she still dreaming ?  
She pulled her hand back nervously .  
The khal had commanded the handmaid Irri to teach Dany to ride in the Dothraki fashion , but it was the filly who was her real teacher .  
The horse seemed to know her moods , as if they shared a single mind .  
The Dothraki were a hard and unsentimental people , and it was not their custom to name their animals , so Dany thought of her only as the silver .  
As the riding became less an ordeal , Dany began to notice the beauties of the land around her .  
She rode at the head of the khalasar with Drogo and his bloodriders , so she came to each country fresh and unspoiled .  
They crossed the rolling hills of Norvos , past terraced farms and small villages where the townsfolk watched anxiously from atop white stucco walls .  
For half a moon , they rode through the Forest of Qohor , where the leaves made a golden canopy high above them , and the trunks of the trees were as wide as city gates .  
She still ached after a long day 's riding , yet somehow the pain had a sweetness to it now , and each morning she came willingly to her saddle , eager to know what wonders waited for her in the lands ahead .  
She began to find pleasure even in her nights , and if she still cried out when Drogo took her , it was not always in pain .  
Khal Drogo came to her only after the sun went down , but her handmaids fed her and bathed her and slept by the door of her tent , Drogo 's bloodriders and the men of her khas were never far , and her brother was an unwelcome shadow , day and night .  
Dany could hear him on the top of the ridge , his voice shrill with anger as he shouted at Ser Jorah .  
She rode on , submerging herself deeper in the Dothraki sea .  
Dany breathed it all in , laughing .  
Swinging down from her saddle , she let the silver graze while she pulled off her high boots .  
Viserys came upon her as sudden as a summer storm , his horse rearing beneath him as he reined up too hard .  
He vaulted off the horse , stumbling as he landed .  
His face was flushed as he struggled back to his feet .  
He grabbed her , shook her .  
She was barefoot , with oiled hair , wearing Dothraki riding leathers and a painted vest given her as a bride gift .  
She looked as though she belonged here .  
I am the Lord of the Seven Kingdoms , I will not hear orders from some horselord 's slut , do you hear me ? ''  
`` Do you hear me ? ''  
Dany shoved him away , hard .  
He would hurt her now , and badly , she knew that .  
The coil took Viserys around the throat and yanked him backward .  
The Dothraki riders hooted at him as he struggled to free himself .  
`` Jhogo asks if you would have him dead , Khaleesi , `` Irri said .  
One of the others barked out a comment , and the Dothraki laughed .  
Irri told her , `` Quaro thinks you should take an ear to teach him respect . ''  
`` Tell them I do not wish him harmed , '' Dany said .  
Irri repeated her words in Dothraki .  
Jhogo gave a pull on the whip , yanking Viserys around like a puppet on a string .  
He went sprawling again , freed from the leather embrace , a thin line of blood under his chin where the whip had cut deep .  
`` I told him to stay on the ridge , as you commanded . ''  
`` I know you did , '' Dany replied , watching Viserys .  
He could not believe what he was hearing ; nor could Dany quite believe what she was saying .  
He turned to Ser Jorah , pleading in the Common Tongue with words the horsemen would not understand .  
The exile knight looked from Dany to her brother ; she barefoot , with dirt between her toes and oil in her hair , he with his silks and steel .  
He took her brother 's horse in hand while Dany remounted her silver .  
He kept his silence , but he would not move , and his eyes were full of poison as they rode away .  
When they could not see him anymore , Dany grew afraid .  
`` Will he find his way back ? ''  
she asked Ser Jorah as they rode .  
They missed nothing , not here , in this land , the place where they had come from .  
Now that it was over , it seemed like some strange dream that she had dreamed .  
`` Ser Jorah , do you think ... he 'll be so angry when he gets back She shivered .  
`` I woke the dragon , did n't I ? ''  
Your brother Rhaegar was the last dragon , and he died on the Trident .  
It seemed as though all the things she had always believed were suddenly called into question .  
`` You ... you swore him your sword ... '' `` That I did , girl , '' Ser Jorah said .  
He is ... '' Jorah pulled up his horse and looked at her .  
Would you want to see Viserys sit a throne ? ''  
Magister Illyrio says they are sewing dragon banners and praying for Viserys to return from across the narrow sea to free them . ''  
It went against everything that Viserys had ever told her to think that the people could care so little whether a true king or a usurper reigned over them .  
Yet the more she thought on Jorah 's words , the more they rang of truth .  
But it was not the plains Dany saw then .  
It was King 's Landing and the great Red Keep that Aegon the Conqueror had built .  
It was Dragonstone where she had been born .  
She had known that for a long time , she realized .  
She had known it all her life .  
Only she had never let herself say the words , even in a whisper , but now she said them for Jorah Mormont and all the world to hear .  
`` He could not lead an army even if my lord husband gave him one , '' Dany said .  
`` He has no coin and the only knight who follows him reviles him as less than a snake .  
Faster and faster she raced , leaving Jorah and Irri and the others far behind , the warm wind in her hair and the setting sun red on her face .  
By the time Viserys came limping back among them , every man , woman , and child in the camp would know him for a walker .  
Dany gave the silver over to the slaves for grooming and entered her tent .  
As she let the door flap close behind her , Dany saw a finger of dusty red light reach out to touch her dragon 's eggs across the tent .  
She blinked , and they were gone .  
They are only stone , even Illyrio said so , the dragons are all dead .  
`` The sun warmed them as they rode . ''  
She commanded her handmaids to prepare her a bath .  
Doreah built a fire outside the tent , while Irri and Jhiqui fetched the big copper tub-another bride gift-from the packhorses and carried water from the pool .  
When the bath was steaming , Irri helped her into it and climbed in after her .  
she asked as Irri scrubbed her back and Jhiqui sluiced sand from her hair .  
She had heard that the first dragons had come from the east , from the Shadow Lands beyond Asshai and the islands of the Jade Sea .  
Viserys had told her that the last Targaryen dragons had died no more than a century and a half ago , during the reign of Aegon , who was called the Dragonbane .  
Magic had died in the west when the Doom fell on Valyria and the Lands of the Long Summer , and neither spell-forged steel nor stormsingers nor dragons could hold it back , but Dany had always heard that the east was different .  
`` A trader from Qartheen once told me that dragons came from the moon , '' blond Doreah said as she warmed a towel over the fire .  
Jhiqui and Irri were of an age with Dany , Dothraki girls taken as slaves when Drogo destroyed their father 's khalasar .  
Magister Illyrio had found her in a pleasure house in Lys .  
Silvery-wet hair tumbled across her eyes as Dany turned her head , curious .  
`` He told me the moon was an egg , Khaleesi , '' the Lysene girl said .  
Dany 's skin was flushed and pink when she climbed from the tub .  
Jhiqui laid her down to oil her body and scrape the dirt from her pores .  
Afterward Irri sprinkled her with spiceflower and cinnamon .  
While Doreah brushed her hair until it shone like spun silver , she thought about the moon , and eggs , and dragons .  
She lowered those eyes when they were alone .  
`` You honor me , Khaleesi , `` she said , but it was no honor , only service .  
Long after the moon had risen , they sat together , talking .  
He stood in the door of her tent and looked at her with surprise .  
She rose slowly and opened her sleeping silks and let them fall to the ground .  
Khal Drogo followed her out into the moonlight , the bells in his hair tinkling softly .  
A few yards from her tent was a bed of soft grass , and it was there that Dany drew him down .  
When he tried to turn her over , she put a hand on his chest .  
Dany felt the eyes on her as she undressed him , heard the soft voices as she did the things that Doreah had told her to do .  
His were the only eyes that mattered , and when she mounted him she saw something there that she had never seen before .  
She rode him as fiercely as ever she had ridden her silver , and when the moment of his pleasure came , Khal Drogo called out her name .  
They were on the far side of the Dothraki sea when Jhiqui brushed the soft swell of Dany 's stomach with her fingers and said , `` Khaleesi , you are with child . ''  
Wherever the boy went , Grey Wind was there first , loping ahead to cut him off , until Rickon saw him , screamed in delight , and went pelting off in another direction .  
Bran thought he was the smartest of the litter .  
He could hear his brother 's breathless laughter as Rickon dashed across the hardpacked earth on little baby legs .  
He had liked Old Nan and her stories once .  
They left her with him all day now , to watch over him and clean him and keep him from being lonely , but she just made it worse .  
The stories are , before me and after me , before you too . ''  
No one really knew how old she was , but his father said she 'd been called Old Nan even when he was a boy .  
Nan had come to the castle as a wet nurse for a Brandon Stark whose mother had died birthing him .  
He had been an older brother of Lord Rickard , Bran 's grandfather , or perhaps a younger brother , or a brother to Lord Rickard 's father .  
Sometimes Old Nan told it one way and sometimes another .  
She had lost both her sons to the war when King Robert won the throne , and her grandson was killed on the walls of Pyke during Balon Greyjoy 's rebellion .  
All that was left of her own blood was Hodor , the simpleminded giant who worked in the stables , but Old Nan just lived on and on , doing her needlework and telling her stories .  
He did n't want stories and he did n't want Old Nan .  
He wanted his mother and father .  
He wanted to go running with Summer loping beside him .  
He wanted to ride his pony again with his brothers .  
He wanted it to be the way it had been before .  
It would never be the way it had been , he knew .  
The crow had tricked him into flying , but when he woke up he was broken and the world was changed .  
They had all left him , his father and his mother and his sisters and even his bastard brother Jon .  
Maester Luwin had sent a bird after Lord Eddard with a message , and another to Mother and a third to Jon on the Wall , but there had been no answers .  
Yet to Bran it felt as if they had all died while he had slept ... or perhaps Bran had died , and they had forgotten him .  
Jory and Ser Rodrik and Vayon Poole had gone too , and Hullen and Harwin and Fat Tom and a quarter of the guard .  
Only Robb and baby Rickon were still here , and Robb was changed .  
His days were spent drilling the guard and practicing his swordplay , making the yard ring with the sound of steel as Bran watched forlornly from his window .  
At night he closeted himself with Maester Luwin , talking or going over account books .  
Even when he was home at Winterfell , Robb the Lord seemed to have more time for Hallis Mollen and Theon Greyjoy than he ever did for his brothers .  
Thousands and thousands of years ago , Brandon the Builder had raised Winterfell , and some said the Wall .  
Bran knew the story , but it had never been his favorite .  
Sometimes Nan would talk to him as if he were her Brandon , the baby she had nursed all those years ago , and sometimes she confused him with his uncle Brandon , who was killed by the Mad King before Bran was even born .  
She had lived so long , Mother had told him once , that all the Brandon Starks had become one person in her head .  
Rickon was running across the yard toward the gatehouse , the wolves following him , but the tower faced the wrong way for Bran to see what was happening .  
Women smothered their children rather than see them starve , and cried , and felt their tears freeze on their cheeks . ''  
Her voice and her needles fell silent , and she glanced up at Bran with pale , filmy eyes and asked , `` So , child .  
Her voice had dropped very low , almost to a whisper , and Bran found himself leaning forward to listen .  
`` Now these were the days before the Andals came , and long before the women fled across the narrow sea from the cities of the Rhoyne , and the hundred kingdoms of those times were the kingdoms of the First Men , who had taken these lands from the children of the forest .  
For years he searched , until he despaired of ever finding the children of the forest in their secret cities .  
One by one his friends died , and his horse , and finally even his dog , and his sword froze so hard the blade snapped when he tried to use it .  
And the Others smelled the hot blood in him , and came silent on his trail , stalking him with packs of pale white spiders big as hounds- '' The door opened with a bang , and Bran 's heart leapt up into his mouth in sudden fear , but it was only Maester Luwin , with Hodor looming in the stairway behind him .  
`` I 'm listening to a story now , '' Bran complained .  
`` Stories wait , my little lord , and when you come back to them , why , there they are , '' Old Nan said .  
Bran asked Maester Luwin .  
Hodor , will you help Bran down to the hall ? ''  
Bran wondered if he would shrivel up as small as his great-grandmother when he was old .  
It did not seem likely , even if Hodor lived to be a thousand .  
Hodor lifted Bran as easy as if he were a bale of hay , and cradled him against his massive chest .  
Theon Greyjoy had once commented that Hodor did not know much , but no one could doubt that he knew his name .  
Old Nan had cackled like a hen when Bran told her that , and confessed that Hodor 's real name was Walder Frey .  
No one knew where `` Hodor '' had come from , she said , but when he started saying it , they started calling him by it .  
They left Old Nan in the tower room with her needles and her memories .  
Hodor hummed tunelessly as he carried Bran down the steps and through the gallery , with Maester Luwin following behind , hurrying to keep up with the stableboy 's long strides .  
Theon Greyjoy and Hallis Mollen stood behind him .  
Bran could sense the anger in the hall the moment that Hodor carried him through the doors .  
`` Any man of the Night 's Watch is welcome here at Winterfell for as long as he wishes to stay , '' Robb was saying with the voice of Robb the Lord .  
Even Bran knew what it meant to greet a guest with an unsheathed sword .  
`` I am the lord here while my mother and father are away , Lannister .  
Bran clasped them as he sat , his useless legs dangling .  
`` You said you had business with Bran .  
`` I am told you were quite the climber , Bran , '' the little man said at last .  
`` Tell me , how is it you happened to fall that day ? ''  
He unrolled it , studied it .  
He wanted to believe them , but he was afraid .  
`` Your brother Jon asked it of me .  
Their eyes found Lannister , or perhaps they caught his scent .  
Grey Wind picked it up .  
`` Perhaps it 's time I took my leave , '' Tyrion said .  
He took a step backward ... and Shaggydog came out of the shadows behind him , snarling .  
Lannister recoiled , and Summer lunged at him from the other side .  
He reeled away , unsteady on his feet , and Grey Wind snapped at his arm , teeth ripping at his sleeve and tearing loose a scrap of cloth .  
Bran shouted from the high seat as Lannister 's men reached for their steel .  
Robb had been holding his breath .  
He let it out with a sigh and called , `` Grey Wind . ''  
The black wolf gave Lannister one final snarl and bounded off to Rickon , who hugged him tightly around the neck .  
Tyrion Lannister undid his scarf , mopped at his brow , and said in a flat voice , `` How interesting . ''  
He glanced nervously at the direwolves as he spoke .  
`` The wolves ... I do n't know why they did that ... '' `` No doubt they mistook me for dinner . ''  
`` I thank you for calling them off , young ser .  
I promise you , they would have found me quite indigestible .  
He moved to Robb and they huddled close together , whispering .  
Bran tried to hear what they were saying , but their voices were too low .  
Robb Stark finally sheathed his sword .  
`` You 've done Bran a kindness , and , well ... '' Robb composed himself with an effort .  
`` The hospitality of Winterfell is yours if you wish it , Lannister . ''  
You do not love me and you do not want me here .  
`` Yoren , we go south at daybreak .  
With that he made his exit , struggling across the hall on his short legs , past Rickon and out the door .  
Robb turned to them uncertainly .  
I hope you will honor us at table tonight . ''  
He spoke the words so awkwardly that even Bran took note ; it was a speech he had learned , not words from the heart , but the black brothers thanked him all the same .  
Summer followed them up the tower steps as Hodor carried Bran back to his bed .  
Robb had promised that he could feast with the Night 's Watch in the Great Hall .  
Bran hugged him so hard he could feel the hot breath on his cheek .  
In his dream he was climbing again , pulling himself up an ancient windowless tower , his fingers forcing themselves between blackened stones , his feet scrabbling for purchase .  
Higher and higher he climbed , through the clouds and into the night sky , and still the tower rose before him .  
When he paused to look down , his head swam dizzily and he felt his fingers slipping .  
He waited until his heart had stopped pounding , until he could breathe , and he began to climb again .  
Far above him , outlined against a vast pale moon , he thought he could see the shapes of gargoyles .  
His arms were sore and aching , but he dared not rest .  
The gargoyles watched him ascend .  
Perhaps once they had been lions , but now they were twisted and grotesque .  
He must not listen , he told himself , he must not hear , so long as he did not hear them he was safe .  
But when the gargoyles pulled themselves loose from the stone and padded down the side of the tower to where Bran clung , he knew he was not safe after all .  
When it was time , he carried him down to the Great Hall , where a long trestle table had been set up near the fire .  
The lord 's seat at the head of the table had been left empty , but Robb sat to the right of it , with Bran across from him .  
They ate suckling pig that night , and pigeon pie , and turnips soaking in butter , and afterward the cook had promised honeycombs .  
Summer snatched table scraps from Bran 's hand , while Grey Wind and Shaggydog fought over a bone in the corner .  
Bran had found that strange at first , but he was growing used to it .  
Yoren was senior among the black brothers , so the steward had seated him between Robb and Maester Luwin .  
He ripped at the meat with his teeth , cracked the ribs to suck out the marrow from the bones , and shrugged at the mention of Jon Snow .  
Yoren wiped his fingers on his vest .  
One of the other men said , `` The Old Bear sent him out to look for Waymar Royce , and he 's late returning , my lord . ''  
He rose from the bench and laid his hand on the hilt of his sword .  
`` Do you hear me ?  
Old sour-smelling Yoren looked up at Robb , unimpressed .  
Theon Greyjoy sniggered , and Maester Luwin said , `` Bran , the children of the forest have been dead and gone for thousands of years .  
That night , after the plates had been cleared , Robb carried Bran up to bed himself .  
Grey Wind led the way , and Summer came close behind .  
His brother was strong for his age , and Bran was as light as a bundle of rags , but the stairs were steep and dark , and Robb was breathing hard by the time they reached the top .  
He put Bran into bed , covered him with blankets , and blew out the candle .  
Bran wanted to talk to him , but he did not know what to say .  
`` We 'll find a horse for you , I promise , '' Robb whispered at last .  
Bran asked him .  
Maybe we can ride out to meet her when she comes .  
Would n't that surprise her , to see you ahorse ? ''  
We wo n't even tell Jon we 're coming , we 'll just be there one day , you and me .  
He heard his brother sob .  
The room was so dark he could not see the tears on Robb 's face , so he reached out and found his hand .  
Wine no longer agrees with my digestion , I fear , but I can offer you a cup of iced milk , sweetened with honey .  
I find it most refreshing in this heat . ''  
Pycelle lifted a tiny silver bell with thumb and forefinger and tinkled it gently .  
As the girl went to fetch their drinks , the Grand Maester knotted his fingers together and rested his hands on his stomach .  
It is not so , yet ofttimes it feels that way , does it not ?  
On days like this , I envy you northerners your summer snows . ''  
There were fools , even in the Citadel , who took that to mean that the Great Summer had come at last , the summer that never ends , but in the seventh year it broke suddenly , and we had a short autumn and a terrible long winter .  
Pycelle 's eyes were so heavily lidded he looked half-asleep .  
You did not come to hear foolish meanderings of a summer forgotten before your father was born .  
The serving girl placed the tray between them , and Pycelle gave her a smile .  
When the girl had taken her leave , Pycelle peered at Ned through pale , rheumy eyes .  
You asked about Lord Arryn ... '' `` I did . ''  
`` We had sat together on council many a year , he and I , and the signs were there to read , but I put them down to the great burdens he had borne so faithfully for so long .  
`` He came to me one day asking after a certain book , as hale and healthy as ever , though it did seem to me that something was troubling him deeply .  
Maester Colemon thought it was a chill on the stomach .  
The weather had been hot , and the Hand often iced his wine , which can upset the digestion .  
When Lord Jon continued to weaken , I went to him myself , but the gods did not grant me the power to save him . ''  
`` I have heard that you sent Maester Colemon away . ''  
`` I did , and I fear the Lady Lysa will never forgive me that .  
Maybe I was wrong , but at the time I thought it best .  
Maester Colemon is like a son to me , and I yield to none in my esteem for his abilities , but he is young , and the young ofttimes do not comprehend the frailty of an older body .  
He was purging Lord Arryn with wasting potions and pepper juice , and I feared he might kill him . ''  
`` Did Lord Arryn say anything to you during his final hours ? ''  
Pycelle wrinkled his brow .  
`` In the last stage of his fever , the Hand called out the name Robert several times , but whether he was asking for his son or for the king I could not say .  
Lady Lysa would not permit the boy to enter the sickroom , for fear that he too might be taken ill .  
`` When I saw that all hope had fled , I gave the Hand the milk of the poppy , so he should not suffer .  
Just before he closed his eyes for the last time , he whispered something to the king and his lady wife , a blessing for his son .  
`` Did it seem to you that there was anything unnatural about Lord Arryn 's death ? ''  
`` Had you ever seen its like before , in other men ? ''  
`` Near forty years I have been Grand Maester of the Seven Kingdoms , '' Pycelle replied .  
`` Under our good King Robert , and Aerys Targaryen before him , and his father Jaehaerys the Second before him , and even for a few short months under Jaehaerys 's father , Aegon the Fortunate , the Fifth of His Name .  
I have seen more of illness than I care to remember , my lord .  
If an old man may be forgiven his blunt speech , let me say that grief can derange even the strongest and most disciplined of minds , and the Lady Lysa was never that .  
Since her last stillbirth , she has seen enemies in every shadow , and the death of her lord husband left her shattered and lost . ''  
Grand Maester Aethelmure wrote that all men carry murder in their hearts , yet even so , the poisoner is beneath contempt . ''  
`` What you suggest is possible , my lord , yet I do not think it likely .  
`` I have heard it said that poison is a woman 's weapon . ''  
Pycelle stroked his beard thoughtfully .  
`` The Lord Varys was born a slave in Lys , did you know ?  
That was scarcely anything Ned needed to be told ; there was something about Varys that made his flesh crawl .  
And I thank you for your help .  
Grand Maester Pycelle pushed himself up from his chair slowly and escorted Ned to the door .  
`` I hope I have helped in some small way to put your mind at ease .  
`` I should be curious to examine the book that you lent Jon the day before he fell ill. '' `` I fear you would find it of little interest , '' Pycelle said .  
I have it here somewhere .  
When I find it , I shall have it sent to your chambers straightaway ... '' `` You have been most courteous , '' Ned told him .  
You mentioned that the king was at Lord Arryn 's bedside when he died .  
Lord Tywin had brought a retinue to the city for the tourney on Prince Joffrey 's name day , no doubt hoping to see his son Jaime win the champion 's crown .  
When Maester Luwin 's bird brought the word about your Bran , the message lifted every true heart in the castle , did it not ? ''  
Pycelle bowed his head .  
On the way back to his chambers , he came upon his daughter Arya on the winding steps of the Tower of the Hand , windmilling her arms as she struggled to balance on one leg .  
She hopped from her right leg to her left , swaying dangerously before she regained her balance .  
`` Must you do your standing here ? ''  
`` Syrio says a water dancer never falls . ''  
She lowered her leg to stand on two feet .  
`` Father , will Bran come and live with us now ? ''  
`` He needs to win his strength back . ''  
Arya bit her lip .  
`` What will Bran do when he 's of age ? ''  
The night the bird had come from Winterfell , Eddard Stark had taken the girls to the castle godswood , an acre of elm and alder and black cottonwood overlooking the river .  
The heart tree there was a great oak , its ancient limbs overgrown with smokeberry vines ; they knelt before it to offer their thanksgiving , as if it had been a weirwood .  
Sansa drifted to sleep as the moon rose , Arya several hours later , curling up in the grass under Ned 's cloak .  
All through the dark hours he kept his vigil alone .  
`` I saw him smiling . ''  
He might raise castles like Brandon the Builder , or sail a ship across the Sunset Sea , or enter your mother 's Faith and become the High Septon . ''  
But he will never run beside his wolf again , he thought with a sadness too deep for words , or lie with a woman , or hold his own son in his arms .  
Arya cocked her head to one side .  
She folded up her right leg and resumed her balancing .  
Ned sighed and left her there .  
Alyn entered as he was drying his face .  
Littlefinger was perched on the window seat when Ned entered , watching the knights of the Kingsguard practice at swords in the yard below .  
Last year he unhorsed the Hound , and it was only four years ago that he was champion . ''  
`` Is there a reason for this visit , Lord Petyr , or are you here simply to enjoy the view from my window ? ''  
`` I promised Cat I would help you in your inquiries , and so I have . ''  
Promise or no promise , he could not find it in him to trust Lord Petyr Baelish , who struck him as too clever by half .  
Had you thought to question the Hand 's servants ? ''  
Lady Arryn took her household back to the Eyrie . ''  
All those who had stood closest to her husband had gone with her when she fled : Jon 's maester , his steward , the captain of his guard , his knights and retainers .  
A pregnant kitchen girl hastily wed to one of Lord Renly 's grooms , a stablehand who joined the City Watch , a potboy discharged from service for theft , and Lord Arryn 's squire . ''  
`` There , across the yard , at the door of the armory , do you see the boy squatting by the steps honing a sword with an oilstone ? ''  
Why do you think I hid Cat in a brothel ? ''  
`` Why , there 's me , you , the king ... although , come to think on it , the king tells the queen much too much , and I 'm less than certain about you . ''  
`` In that case , I have a delightful palace in Valyria that I would dearly love to sell you , '' Littlefinger said with a mocking smile .  
Distrusting me was the wisest thing you 've done since you climbed down off your horse . ''  
Dareon broke off and lifted his visor .  
`` Would you look at this , Jon . ''  
Through the eye slit of his helm , he beheld the fattest boy he had ever seen standing in the door of the armory .  
`` They ... they told me I was to come here for ... for training , '' he said to no one in particular .  
Pyp had traveled the Seven Kingdo ms with a mummers ' troupe , and bragged that he could tell what you were and where you 'd been born just from the sound of your voice .  
Ser Alliser Thorne looked over his new charge and said , `` It would seem they have run short of poachers and thieves down south .  
Now they send us pigs to man the Wall .  
As none of it was black , however , Ser Alliser insisted that he reequip himself from the armory .  
`` Let us hope you are not as inept as you look , '' Ser Alliser said .  
He was sixteen , tall and muscular , and his blows were as hard as any Jon had ever felt .  
`` No more , I yield , do n't hit me . ''  
When the boy continued to cling to the ground , Thorne gestured to Halder .  
`` Hit him with the flat of your blade until he finds his feet . ''  
Halder took hold of his longsword with both hands and brought it down so hard the blow split leather , even on the flat .  
Jon Snow took a step forward .  
`` I remind you that I am the master-at-arms here , Lord Snow . ''  
Jon drew his longsword .  
He dared defy Ser Alliser only to a point , and he feared he was well beyond it now .  
`` The Bastard wishes to defend his lady love , so we shall make an exercise of it .  
Rat , Pimple , help our Stone Head here . ''  
Rast and Albett moved to join Halder .  
He dropped his visor and slid out his sword .  
he asked Rast and the others in a voice gone deceptively soft , but it was Jon who moved first .  
Halder barely got his sword up in time .  
Jon drove him backward , attacking with every blow , keeping the older boy on the heels .  
Know your foe , Ser Rodrik had taught him once ; Jon knew Halder , brutally strong but short of patience , with no taste for defense .  
Jon blocked a savage cut at his head , the shock of impact running up his arm as the swords crashed together .  
Jon cut his left leg from under him , and he fell with a curse and a crash .  
Grenn was standing his ground as Jon had taught him , giving Albett more than he cared for , but Pyp was hard-pressed .  
As Rast went reeling , Pyp slid in under his guard , knocked him down , and leveled a blade at his throat .  
Dareon helped Halder to his feet .  
`` For an instant , I thought I finally had you , Snow . ''  
He sheathed his sword and tried to remove his helm , but when he raised his arm , the pain made him grit his teeth .  
`` Did he hurt you ? ''  
He touched his shoulder and winced .  
Blood matted the fat boy 's hair where Halder had split his helm asunder .  
`` My name is Samwell Tarly , of Horn Hill ... '' He stopped and licked his lips .  
`` I mean , I was of Horn Hill , until I ... left .  
I used to be his heir , only His voice trailed off .  
`` I 'm Jon Snow , Ned Stark 's bastard , of Winterfell . ''  
I did n't want him to hit me anymore . ''  
Even Pyp had no words to say to that , and Pyp had words for everything .  
Samwell Tarly must have read their thoughts on their faces .  
`` I do n't mean to ... to be like I am . ''  
When he was gone , Grenn frowned .  
`` I wish we had n't helped him .  
What if they think we 're craven too ? ''  
He stopped suddenly , scowling when he saw Pyp 's grin and realized what he 'd just said .  
Jon left them there arguing as he returned to the armory , hung up his sword , and stripped off his battered armor .  
Life at Castle Black followed certain patterns ; the mornings were for swordplay , the afternoons for work .  
Jon cherished the rare afternoons when he was sent out with Ghost ranging at his side to bring back game for the Lord Commander 's table , but for every day spent hunting , he gave a dozen to Donal Noye in the armory , spinning the whetstone while the one-armed smith sharpened axes grown dull from use , or pumping the bellows as Noye hammered out a new sword .  
Other times he ran messages , stood at guard , mucked out stables , fletched arrows , assisted Maester Aemon with his birds or Bowen Marsh with his counts and inventories .  
It was lonely and boring work , even with Ghost along for company , but Jon found he did not mind .  
He could think here , and he found himself thinking of Samwell Tarly ... and , oddly , of Tyrion Lannister .  
The world was full of cravens who pretended to be heroes ; it took a queer sort of courage to admit to cowardice as Samwell Tarly had .  
He lingered on high to watch the sun go down , turning the western sky the color of blood .  
The mummer 's boy with the big ears was a born liar with a hundred different voices , and he did not tell his tales so much as live them , playing all the parts as needed , a king one moment and a swineherd the next .  
When he turned into an alehouse girl or a virgin princess , he used a high falsetto voice that reduced them all to tears of helpless laughter , and his eunuchs were always eerily accurate caricatures of Ser Alliser .  
Jon took as much pleasure from Pyp 's antics as anyone ... yet that night he turned away and went instead to the end of the bench , where Samwell Tarly sat alone , as far from the others as he could get .  
He was finishing the last of the pork pie the cooks had served up for supper when Jon sat down across from him .  
`` I hate it . ''  
Jon heard Pyp squeaking in a high voice .  
`` Of course I saw it , it 's seven hundred feet high . ''  
Yet he stood up all the same , wrapped a furlined cloak over his shoulders , and followed Jon from the common hall , still wary , as if he suspected some cruel trick was waiting for him in the night .  
`` I never thought it would be like this , '' Sam said as they walked , his words steaming in the cold air .  
Already he was huffing and puffing as he tried to keep up .  
`` Last night I woke up in the dark and the fire had gone out and I was certain I was going to freeze to death by morning . ''  
We were crossing the barrowlands , me and the men my father sent to see me north , and this white stuff began to fall , like a soft rain .  
At first I thought it was so beautiful , like feathers drifting from the sky , but it kept on and on , until I was frozen to the bone .  
The men had crusts of snow in their beards and more on their shoulders , and still it kept coming .  
`` Are they going to make me go up there ? ''  
`` I 'll die if I have to climb that . ''  
Afterward they sat on the frozen ground , huddled in their cloaks with Ghost between them .  
Jon told the story of how he and Robb had found the pups newborn in the late summer snows .  
Before long he found himself talking of Winterfell .  
`` Sometimes I dream about it , '' he said .  
My voice echoes all around , but no one answers , so I walk faster , opening doors , shouting names .  
I do n't even know who I 'm looking for .  
Most nights it 's my father , but sometimes it 's Robb instead , or my little sister Arya , or my uncle . ''  
The thought of Benjen Stark saddened him ; his uncle was still missing .  
Ser Jaremy Rykker had led two sweeps , and Quorin Halfhand had gone forth from the Shadow Tower , but they 'd found nothing aside from a few blazes in the trees that his uncle had left to mark his way .  
In the stony highlands to the northwest , the marks stopped abruptly and all trace of Ben Stark vanished .  
Jon shook his head .  
He had never told anyone of the dream , and he did not understand why he was telling Sam now , yet somehow it felt good to talk of it .  
It 's black inside , and I can see the steps spiraling down .  
Somehow I know I have to go down there , but I do n't want to .  
The old Kings of Winter are down there , sitting on their thrones with stone wolves at their feet and iron swords across their laps , but it 's not them I 'm afraid of .  
I scream that I 'm not a Stark , that this is n't my place , but it 's no good , I have to go anyway , so I start down , feeling the walls as I descend , with no torch to light the way .  
It gets darker and darker , until I want to scream . ''  
`` I hated it there . ''  
He scratched Ghost behind the ear , brooding , and Jon let the silence breathe .  
After a long while Samwell Tarly began to talk , and Jon Snow listened quietly , and learned how it was that a self-confessed coward found himself on the Wall .  
The Tarlys were a family old in honor , bannermen to Mace Tyrell , Lord of Highgarden and Warden of the South .  
Whatever pride his lord father might have felt at Samwell 's birth vanished as the boy grew up plump , soft , and awkward .  
Sam loved to listen to music and make his own songs , to wear soft velvets , to play in the castle kitchen beside the cooks , drinking in the rich smells as he snitched lemon cakes and blueberry tarts .  
But he grew ill at the sight of blood , and wept to see even a chicken slaughtered .  
A dozen masters-at-arms came and went at Horn Hill , trying to turn Samwell into the knight his father wanted .  
One man had him sleep in his chainmail to make him more martial .  
They slaughtered a bull aurochs and made me bathe in the hot blood , but it did n't make me brave as they 'd promised .  
Father had them scourged . ''  
From that day , Lord Randyll ignored Sam , devoting all his time to the younger boy , a fierce , robust child more to his liking .  
`` You have given me no cause to disown you , but neither will I allow you to inherit the land and title that should be Dickon 's .  
So I have decided that you shall this day announce that you wish to take the black .  
`` If you do not , then on the morrow we shall have a hunt , and somewhere in these woods your horse will stumble , and you will be thrown from the saddle to die ... or so I will tell your mother .  
She has a woman 's heart and finds it in her to cherish even you , and I have no wish to cause her pain .  
Please do not imagine that it will truly be that easy , should you think to defy me .  
Sam told the tale in a calm , dead voice , as if it were something that had happened to someone else , not to him .  
And strangely , Jon thought , he did not weep , not even once .  
`` Lord Rowan of Goldengrove found him in bed with his daughter .  
The girl was two years older , and Dareon swears she helped him through her window , but under her father 's eye she named it rape , so here he is .  
When Maester Aemon heard him sing , he said his voice was honey poured over thunder . ''  
`` Toad sometimes sings too , if you call it singing .  
`` He 's going to make me fight again on the morrow , is n't he ? ''  
The others were still in the common room when Jon returned , alone but for Ghost .  
`` At supper , there were still places on the bench when he got his pie , but he was too scared to come sit with us . ''  
`` The Lord of Ham thinks he 's too good to eat with the likes of us , '' suggested Jeren .  
`` I saw him eat a pork pie , '' Toad said , smirking .  
`` Do you think it was a brother ? ''  
Pyp backed him , as he 'd known he would , but when Halder spoke up , it was a pleasant surprise .  
Grenn was anxious at the first , but Jon knew the words to move him .  
`` You girls do as you please , '' Rast said , `` but if Thorne sends me against Lady Piggy , I 'm going to slice me off a rasher of bacon . ''  
He laughed in Jon 's face and left them there .  
Hours later , as the castle slept , three of them paid a call on his cell .  
Grenn held his arms while Pyp sat on his legs .  
`` Remember , we know where you sleep , '' Jon said softly .  
The next morning Jon heard Rast tell Albett and Toad how his razor had slipped while he shaved .  
When Ser Alliser matched them against him , they would stand their ground and swat aside his slow , clumsy strokes .  
If the master-at-arms screamed for an attack , they would dance in and tap Sam lightly on breastplate or helm or leg .  
Ser Alliser raged and threatened and called them all cravens and women and worse , yet Sam remained unhurt .  
A few nights later , at Jon 's urging , he joined them for the evening meal , taking a place on the bench beside Halder .  
It was another fortnight before he found the nerve to join their talk , but in time he was laughing at Pyp 's faces and teasing Grenn with the best of them .  
One night he visited Jon in his cell .  
`` I do n't know what you did , '' he said , `` but I know you did it . ''  
And so they were , he thought to himself after Sam had taken his leave .  
Robb and Bran and Rickon were his father 's sons , and he loved them still , yet Jon knew that he had never truly been one of them .  
The grey walls of Winterfell might still haunt his dreams , but Castle Black was his life now , and his brothers were Sam and Grenn and Halder and Pyp and the other cast-outs who wore the black of the Night 's Watch .  
He wondered if he would ever see Benjen Stark again , to tell him .  
`` I assure you , the Hand wants no part of it . ''  
Knights have been arriving from all over the realm , and for every knight we get two freeriders , three craftsmen , six men-at-arms , a dozen merchants , two dozen whores , and more thieves than I dare guess .  
No one seems to know how it got there or who it belongs to . ''  
Stout , jowly Janos Slynt puffed himself up like an angry frog , his bald pate reddening .  
As ever , Robert had not troubled himself to attend the council session , so it fell to his Hand to speak for him .  
`` I will also give you twenty good swords from my own household guard , to serve with the Watch until the crowds have left . ''  
When the Commander had taken his leave , Eddard Stark turned to the rest of the council .  
And Robert honestly seemed to think he should feel honored !  
`` We 're fortunate my brother Stannis is not with us .  
If truth be told , I ofttimes wonder how Stannis ever got that ugly daughter of his .  
He goes to his marriage bed like a man marching to a battlefield , with a grim look in his eyes and a determination to do his duty . ''  
I wonder when he intends to end his visit to Dragonstone and resume his seat on this council . ''  
`` No doubt as soon as we 've scourged all those whores into the sea , '' Littlefinger replied , provoking more laughter .  
Harwin had the door when Ned returned to the Tower of the Hand .  
The Red Keep and the `` Hand 's tourney '' were chafing him raw , Ned reflected as he climbed .  
He yearned for the comfort of Catelyn 's arms , for the sounds of Robb and Jon crossing swords in the practice yard , for the cool days and cold nights of the north .  
In his chambers he stripped off his council silks and sat for a moment with the book while he waited for Jory to arrive .  
The Lineages and Histories of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms , With Descliptions of Many High Lords and Noble Ladies and Their Children , by Grand Maester Malleon .  
Pycelle had spoken truly ; it made for ponderous reading .  
Yet Jon Arryn had asked for it , and Ned felt certain he had reasons .  
There was something here , some truth buried in these brittle yellow pages , if only he could see it .  
Scarcely a man now alive had yet been born when Malleon had compiled his dusty lists of weddings , births , and deaths .  
He opened to the section on Tytos of House Lannister once more , and turned the pages slowly , hoping against hope that something would leap out at him .  
The Lannisters were an old family , tracing their descent back to Lann the Clever , a trickster from the Age of Heroes who was no doubt as legendary as Bran the Builder , though far more beloved of singers and taletellers .  
Ned wished he were here now , to winkle the truth out of this damnable book .  
Ned closed Malleon 's tome and bid him enter .  
`` I 've promised the City Watch twenty of my guard until the tourney is done , '' he told him .  
Give Alyn the command , and make certain the men understand that they are needed to stop fights , not start them . ''  
`` He vows he 'll never touch another horse . ''  
`` He claims he knew Lord Arryn well .  
`` The Hand always gave the lads a copper on their name days , he says .  
Never rode his mounts too hard , and brought them carrots and apples , so they were always pleased to see him . ''  
She said Lord Jon had been reading more than was good for him , that he was troubled and melancholy over his young son 's frailty , and gruff with his lady wife .  
Often went riding with Lord Stannis , he says . ''  
Stannis again , Ned thought .  
And while Robert had been riding north to Winterfell , Stannis had removed himself to Dragonstone , the Targaryen island fastness he had conquered in his brother 's name .  
`` The boy says that they visited a brothel . ''  
He shook his head , incredulous , wondering what Lord Renly would make of this tidbit .  
`` The boy insists it 's true .  
The Hand took three guardsmen with him , and the boy says they were joking of it when he took their horses afterward . ''  
`` A pity Lysa carried them off to the Vale , '' Ned said dryly .  
`` Will you summon Lord Stannis back from Dragonstone ? ''  
`` Not until I have a better notion of what this is all about and where he stands . ''  
Had he played some part in Jon Arryn 's murder ?  
Ned found it hard to imagine what could frighten Stannis Baratheon , who had once held Storm 's End through a year of siege , surviving on rats and boot leather while the Lords Tyrell and Redwyne sat outside with their hosts , banqueting in sight of his walls .  
I want this armorer to know who I am .  
A few days past , he had taken Ned aside to show him an exquisite rose gold locklet .  
Renly had seemed anxious to know if the girl reminded him of anyone , and when Ned had no answer but a shrug , he had seemed disappointed .  
The maid was Loras Tyrell 's sister Margaery Tyrell , he 'd confessed , but there were those who said she looked like Lyanna .  
Could it be that Lord Renly , who looked so like a young Robert , had conceived a passion for a girl he fancied to be a young Lyanna ?  
Jory held out the doublet , and Ned slid his hands through the armholes .  
Jory draped Ned 's cloak across his shoulders and clasped it at the throat with the Hand 's badge of office .  
`` The gods help this potboy if he 's sent me off haring after shadows . ''  
Varly and Jacks fell in beside him as he rode through the yard .  
Their steel caps and shirts of mail must have been sweltering , yet they said no word of complaint .  
As Lord Eddard passed beneath the King 's Gate into the stink of the city , his grey and white cloak streaming from his shoulders , he saw eyes everywhere and kicked his mount into a trot .  
He looked behind him frequently as they made their way through the crowded city streets .  
Tomard and Desmond had left the castle early this morning to take up positions on the route they must take , and watch for anyone following them , but even so , Ned was uncertain .  
The shadow of the King 's Spider and his little birds had him fretting like a maiden on her wedding night .  
The Street of Steel began at the market square beside the River Gate , as it was named on maps , or the Mud Gate , as it was commonly called .  
Ned turned off the square where the Street of Steel began and followed its winding path up a long hill , past blacksmiths working at open forges , freeriders haggling over mail shirts , and grizzled ironmongers selling old blades and razors from their wagons .  
The farther they climbed , the larger the buildings grew .  
Ned left his horse with Jacks and shouldered his way inside .  
`` I am Tobho Mott , my lord , please , please , put yourself at ease . ''  
`` You will not find craftsmanship equal to mine anywhere in the Seven Kingdoms , I promise you .  
Ned sipped his wine and let the man go on .  
The Knight of Flowers bought all his armor here , Tobho boasted , and many high lords , the ones who knew fine steel , and even Lord Renly , the king 's own brother .  
`` The direwolf was the sigil of House Stark , is it not ?  
`` Did you make a falcon helm for Lord Arryn ? ''  
`` The Hand did call upon me , with Lord Stannis , the king 's brother .  
I regret to say , they did not honor me with their patronage . ''  
Ned looked at the man evenly , saying nothing , waiting .  
When the armorer opened the door , the blast of hot air that came through made Ned feel as though he were walking into a dragon 's mouth .  
Strong for his age , and he works hard .  
Show the Hand that helmet you made , lad . ''  
Almost shyly , the boy led them to his bench , and a steel helm shaped like a bull 's head , with two great curving horns .  
I would be pleased if you would let me buy it . ''  
`` I made it for me , '' the boy said stubbornly .  
Forgive him and I promise I will craft you a helm like none you have ever seen . ''  
`` He 's done nothing that requires my forgiveness .  
Gendry , when Lord Arryn came to see you , what did you talk about ? ''  
`` He asked me questions is all , m'lord . ''  
`` How was I , and was I well treated , and if I liked the work , and stuff about my mother .  
Who she was and what she looked like and all . ''  
She had yellow hair , and sometimes she used to sing to me , I remember .  
He never said no word , just glared at me , like I was some raper who done for his daughter . ''  
That helm ... the others call him bullheaded , so he threw it in their teeth . ''  
Yes , he thought , I see it .  
He had such promise , I took him on without a fee . ''  
The day you take on an apprentice without a fee will be the day the Wall comes down .  
He paid in gold , twice the customary sum , and said he was paying once for the boy , and once for my silence . ''  
He wore a rich cloak , that I do remember , heavy purple velvet worked with silver threads , but the hood shadowed his face and I never did see him clear . ''  
`` None of us wants trouble , but I fear these are troubled times , Master Mott , '' Ned said .  
I know what I 'm told . ''  
He looked Ned in the eye , stubborn as old iron .  
`` Who he was before he came to me , that 's none of my concern . ''  
He decided that he liked Tobho Mott , master armorer .  
Until then , you have my thanks , Master Mott , and my promise .  
Should I ever want a helm to frighten children , this will be the first place I visit . ''  
What had Jon Arryn wanted with a king 's bastard , and why was it worth his life ?  
Her hair hung wet and heavy , a loose strand stuck to her forehead , and she could imagine how ragged and wild she must look , but for once she did not care .  
Catelyn liked the feel of it on her face , gentle as a mother 's kisses .  
It took her back to her childhood , to long grey days at Riverrun .  
She remembered the godswood , drooping branches heavy with moisture , and the sound of her brother 's laughter as he chased her through piles of damp leaves .  
She had slept many a night there in her youth , traveling with her father .  
`` If only ... but we dare not risk it .  
If we wish to remain unknown , I think it best we seek out some small holdfast ... '' He broke off as they heard sounds up the road ; splashing water , the clink of mail , a horse 's whinny .  
Catelyn reined up to let them pass .  
Lord Jason Mallister himself rode with them , surrounded by his knights , his son Patrek Mallister by his side and their squires close behind .  
They were riding for King 's Landing and the Hand 's tourney , she knew .  
She studied Lord Jason boldly .  
The last time she had seen him he had been jesting with her uncle at her wedding feast ; the Mallisters stood bannermen to the Tullys , and his gifts had been lavish .  
His brown hair was salted with white now , his face chiseled gaunt by time , yet the years had not touched his pride .  
Catelyn envied him that ; she had come to fear so much .  
As the riders passed , Lord Jason nodded a curt greeting , but it was only a high lord 's courtesy to strangers chance met on the road .  
I think we shall be safe enough at the inn , Ser Rodrik . ''  
It was near dark when they reached it , at the crossroads north of the great confluence of the Trident .  
Masha Heddle was fatter and greyer than Catelyn remembered , still chewing her sourleaf , but she gave them only the most cursory of looks , with nary a hint of her ghastly red smile .  
`` They 're under the bell tower , you wo n't be missing meals , though there 's some thinks it too noisy .  
I wo n't have you tracking mud up my stairs .  
Her father had always given her wise counsel when she needed it most , and she yearned to talk to him , to warn him of the gathering storm .  
If Winterfell needed to brace for war , how much more so Riverrun , so much closer to King 's Landing , with the power of Casterly Rock looming to the west like a shadow .  
If only her father had been stronger , she might have chanced it , but Hoster Tully had been bedridden these past two years , and Catelyn was loath to tax him now .  
There she would find her sister ... and , perhaps , some of the answers Ned sought .  
Surely Lysa knew more than she had dared to put in her letter .  
She might have the very proof that Ned needed to bring the Lannisters to ruin , and if it came to war , they would need the Arryns and the eastern lords who owed them service .  
Even Jon Arryn , as great a lord as any the Eyrie had ever known , had always traveled in strength when he crossed the mountains .  
No , she thought , Riverrun and the Eyrie would have to wait .  
Her path ran north to Winterfell , where her sons and her duty were waiting for her .  
As soon as they were safely past the Neck , she could declare herself to one of Ned 's bannermen , and send riders racing ahead with orders to mount a watch on the kingsroad .  
The rain obscured the fields beyond the crossroads , but Catelyn saw the land clear enough in her memory .  
Catelyn knew them all : the Blackwoods and the Brackens , ever enemies , whose quarrels her father was obliged to settle ; Lady Oswell Whent , last of her line , who dwelt with her ghosts in the cavernous vaults of Harrenhal ; irascible Lord House Frey , who had outlived seven wives and filled his twin castles with children , grandchildren , and great-grandchildren , and bastards and grandbastards as well .  
Catelyn wondered if that would be enough , if it came to war .  
Her father was the staunchest man who 'd ever lived , and she had no doubt that he would call his banners ... but would the banners come ?  
The Darrys and Rygers and Mootons had sworn oaths to Riverrun as well , yet they had fought with Rhaegar Targaryen on the Trident , while Lord Frey had arrived with his levies well after the battle was over , leaving some doubt as to which army he had planned to join ( theirs , he had assured the victors solemnly in the aftermath , but ever after her father had called him the Later Lord Frey ) .  
Ser Rodrik came for her just as the bell ceased its clangor .  
`` We had best make haste if we hope to eat tonight , my lady . ''  
`` It might be safer if we were not knight and lady until we pass the Neck , '' she told him .  
It was only when she laughed that he realized what he 'd done .  
He tried to tug on his missing whiskers , and sighed with exasperation .  
Catelyn took his arm .  
`` You 'll find that Masha Heddle sets a good table , I think , but try not to praise her .  
You truly do n't want to see her smile . ''  
A serving boy ran back and forth with skewers of meat while Masha drew beer from the kegs , chewing her sourleaf all the while .  
She studied their faces , but they were all too young to have known her .  
The singer , a youth of some eighteen years , eyed them boldly and asked where they were going , and from whence they had come , and what news they had , letting the questions fly as quick as arrows and never pausing for an answer .  
`` We left King 's Landing a fortnight ago , '' Catelyn replied , answering the safest of his questions .  
The last time I came away with more silver than I could carry ... or would have , if I had n't lost it all betting on the Kingslayer to win the day . ''  
`` Your cruel gods and the Knight of Flowers altogether did me in . ''  
Ser Rodrik set to lustily as the lad ran back to fetch them beer .  
`` Doubtless you 've heard me play somewhere ? ''  
Few wandering singers ever ventured as far north as Winterfell , but she knew his like from her girlhood in Riverrun .  
`` I meant to do you honor .  
`` Lord Tully is fond of song , I hear .  
Another singer had once bedded a girl her brother fancied ; he had hated the breed ever since .  
`` It 's all blizzards and bearskins up there , and the Starks know no music but the howling of wolves . ''  
`` I 'm sorry , m'lord , truly , we 're full up , every room . ''  
`` My men will steep in your stable , and as for myself , well , I do not require a large room , as you can plainly see . ''  
`` M'lord , there 's nothing , it 's the tourney , there 's no help for it , oh ... '' Tyrion Lannister pulled a coin from his purse and flicked it up over his head , caught it , tossed it again .  
And may he choke on it , Catelyn thought , but it was Bran she saw choking , drowning on his own blood .  
Yoren , will you sup with me ? ''  
The dwarf had not so much as glanced toward the far end of the room , and Catelyn was thinking how grateful she was for the crowded benches between them when suddenly Marillion bounded to his feet .  
`` I would be pleased to entertain you while you eat .  
Let me sing you the lay of your father 's great victory at King 's Landing ! ''  
She turned her face away , but too late .  
Marillion gaped at her , confusion giving way to chagrin as Catelyn rose slowly to her feet .  
If only the man had lingered at the Wall , she thought , if only ... `` Lady ... Stark ? ''  
`` I was still Catelyn Tully the last time I bedded here , '' she told the innkeep .  
Did she dare take the risk ?  
`` Is that the black bat of Harrenhal I see embroidered on your surcoat , ser ? ''  
Ser Rodrik rose quietly and loosened his sword in its scabbard .  
`` I know your sigil as well : the twin towers of Frey .  
He plans to take a new wife on his ninetieth name day , and has asked your lord father to honor the wedding with his presence . ''  
That was when Catelyn knew he was hers .  
`` In the name of King Robert and the good lords you serve , I call upon you to seize him and help me return him to Winterfell to await the king 's justice . ''  
She did not know what was more satisfying : the sound of a dozen swords drawn as one or the look on Tyrion Lannister 's face .  
The splendor of it all took Sansa 's breath away ; the shining armor , the great chargers caparisoned in silver and gold , the shouts of the crowd , the banners snapping in the wind ... and the knights themselves , the knights most of all .  
Sansa was dressed beautifully that day , in a green gown that brought out the auburn of her hair , and she knew they were looking at her and smiling .  
Sansa remembered Lord Yohn Royce , who had guested at Winterfell two years before .  
He had cut down three of Rhaegar 's bannermen on the Trident .  
The girls giggled over the warrior priest Thoros of Myr , with his flapping red robes and shaven head , until the septa told them that he had once scaled the walls of Pyke with a flaming sword in hand .  
Younger men , most had done no great deeds as yet , but Sansa and Jeyne agreed that one day the Seven Kingdoms would resound to the sound of their names .  
Bronze Yohn Royce 's heir , Ser Andar Royce , and his younger brother Ser Robar Royce , their silvered steel plate filigreed in bronze with the same ancient runes that warded their father .  
Six Freys of the Crossing : Ser Jared Frey , Ser Hosteen Frey , Ser Danwell Frey , Ser Emmon , Ser Theo , Ser Perwyn , sons and grandsons of old Lord Walder Frey , and his bastard son Martyn Rivers as well .  
Jeyne Poole confessed herself frightened by the look of Jalabhar Xho , an exile prince from the Summer Isles who wore a cape of green and scarlet feathers over skin as dark as night , but when she saw young Lord Beric Dondarrion , with his hair like red gold and his black shield slashed by lightning , she pronounced herself willing to marry him on the instant .  
Yet he acquitted himself well , unhorsing Horas Redwyne in his first joust and one of the Freys in his second .  
In his third match , he rode three passes at a freerider named Lothor Brune whose armor was as drab as his own .  
Alyn and Harwin fared less well ; Harwin was unhorsed in his first tilt by Ser Meryn of the Kingsguard , while Alyn fell to Ser Balon Swann .  
A dozen times Jeyne and Sansa cried out in unison as riders crashed together , lances exploding into splinters while the commons screamed for their favorites .  
Jeyne covered her eyes whenever a man fell , like a frightened little girl , but Sansa was made of sterner stuff .  
Even Septa Mordane noted her composure and nodded in approval .  
He overthrew Ser Andar Royce and the Marcher Lord Bryce Caron as easily as if he were riding at rings , and then took a hard-fought match from white- haired Barristan Selmy , who had won his first two tilts against men thirty and forty years his junior .  
The most terrifying moment of the day came during Ser Gregor 's second joust , when his lance rode up and struck a young knight from the Vale under the gorget with such force that it drove through his throat , killing him instantly .  
His cloak was blue , the color of the sky on a clear summer 's day , trimmed with a border of crescent moons , but as his blood seeped into it , the cloth darkened and the moons turned red , one by one .  
Jeyne Poole wept so hysterically that Septa Mordane finally took her off to regain her composure , but Sansa sat with her hands folded in her lap , watching with a strange fascination .  
She ought to be crying too , she thought , but the tears would not come .  
Perhaps she had used up all her tears for Lady and Bran .  
It would be different if it had been Jory or Ser Rodrik or Father , she told herself .  
The young knight in the blue cloak was nothing to her , some stranger from the Vale of Arryn whose name she had forgotten as soon as she heard it .  
And now the world would forget his name too , Sansa realized ; there would be no songs sung for him .  
After they carried off the body , a boy with a spade ran onto the field and shoveled dirt over the spot where he had fallen , to cover up the blood .  
Ser Balon Swann also fell to Gregor , and Lord Renly to the Hound .  
Renly was unhorsed so violently that he seemed to fly backward off his charger , legs in the air .  
The Hound snorted and tossed the broken antler into the crowd , where the commons began to punch and claw over the little bit of gold , until Lord Renly walked out among them and restored the peace .  
Jeyne had been feeling ill , she explained ; she had helped her back to the castle .  
Lord Beric shifted his saddle to a new mount , only to be knocked right off it by Thoros of Myr .  
Ser Aron Santagar and Lothor Brune tilted thrice without result ; Ser Aron fell afterward to Lord Jason Mallister , and Brune to Yohn Royce 's younger son , Robar .  
In the end it came down to four ; the Hound and his monstrous brother Gregor , Jaime Lannister the Kingslayer , and Ser Loras Tyrell , the youth they called the Knight of Flowers .  
At sixteen , he was the youngest rider on the field , yet he had unhorsed three knights of the Kingsguard that morning in his first three jousts .  
Ser Robar 's ancestral runes proved small protection as Ser Loras split his shield and drove him from his saddle to crash with an awful clangor in the dirt .  
Robar lay moaning as the victor made his circuit of the field .  
Finally they called for a litter and carried him off to his tent , dazed and unmoving .  
Sansa never saw it .  
To the other maidens he had given white roses , but the one he plucked for her was red .  
Sansa took the flower timidly , struck dumb by his gallantry .  
She inhaled the sweet fragrance of the rose and sat clutching it long after Ser Loras had ridden off .  
The man wore a heavy cloak with a fur collar , fastened with a silver mockingbird , and he had the effortless manner of a high lord , but she did not know him .  
`` You have her hair . ''  
His fingers brushed against her cheek as he stroked one auburn lock .  
While the commons began their walk home , talking of the day 's jousts and the matches to come on the morrow , the court moved to the riverside to begin the feast .  
Sansa and Septa Mordane were given places of high honor , to the left of the raised dais where the king himself sat beside his queen .  
When Prince Joffrey seated himself to her right , she felt her throat tighten .  
He had not spoken a word to her since the awful thing had happened , and she had not dared to speak to him .  
At first she thought she hated him for what they 'd done to Lady , but after Sansa had wept her eyes dry , she told herself that it had not been Joffrey 's doing , not truly .  
Sansa looked at him and trembled , afraid that he might ignore her or , worse , turn hateful again and send her weeping from the table .  
Instead Joffrey smiled and kissed her hand , handsome and gallant as any prince in the songs , and said , `` Ser Loras has a keen eye for beauty , sweet lady . ''  
Do you think he will win tomorrow , my lord ? ''  
He raised his hand to summon a servant with a flagon of iced summerwine , and poured her a cup .  
She looked anxiously at Septa Mordane , until Joffrey leaned over and filled the septa 's cup as well , so she nodded and thanked him graciously and said not another word .  
She was drunk on the magic of the night , giddy with glamour , swept away by beauties she had dreamt of all her life and never dared hope to know .  
Even Septa Mordane was helpless before him ; when he sang his little song about the High Septon , she laughed so hard she spilled wine on herself .  
He talked to Sansa all night , showering her with compliments , making her laugh , sharing little bits of court gossip , explaining Moon Boy 's japes .  
Sansa was so captivated that she quite forgot all her courtesies and ignored Septa Mordane , seated to her left .  
Sansa had never eaten snails before ; Joffrey showed her how to get the snail out of the shell , and fed her the first sweet morsel himself .  
And when the meat course was brought out , he served her himself , slicing a queen 's portion from the joint , smiling as he laid it on her plate .  
She could see from the way he moved that his right arm was still troubling him , yet he uttered not a word of complaint .  
From time to time Sansa could hear him laughing or roaring a command over the music and the clangor of plates and cutlery , but they were too far away for her to make out his words .  
`` You do not tell me what to do , woman , '' he screamed at Queen Cersei .  
`` I am king here , do you understand ?  
I rule here , and if I say that I will fight tomorrow , I will fight ! ''  
Sansa saw Ser Barristan , and the king 's brother Renly , and the short man who had talked to her so oddly and touched her hair , but no one made a move to interfere .  
She rose from the table , gathered her skirts around her , and stormed off in silence , servants trailing behind .  
Jaime Lannister put a hand on the king 's shoulder , but the king shoved him away hard .  
He slapped his chest with the jeweled goblet , splashing wine all over his satin tunic .  
`` You 've spilled your wine , Robert .  
Let me bring you a fresh goblet . ''  
Sansa started as Joffrey laid his hand on her arm .  
He had a queer look on his face , as if he were not seeing her at all .  
She looked for Septa Mordane , and was startled to find her with her head on the table , snoring soft and ladylike snores .  
Sandor Clegane seemed to take form out of the night , so quickly did he appear .  
`` Take my betrothed back to the castle , and see that no harm befalls her , '' the prince told him brusquely .  
And without even a word of farewell , Joffrey strode off , leaving her there .  
Sansa could feel the Hound watching her .  
`` Did you think Joff was going to take you himself ? ''  
He pulled her unresisting to her feet .  
I 've drunk too much , and I may need to kill my brother tomorrow . ''  
Suddenly terrified , Sansa pushed at Septa Mordane 's shoulder , hoping to wake her , but she only snored the louder .  
King Robert had stumbled off and half the benches were suddenly empty .  
The ground was rocky and uneven ; the flickering light made it seem to shift and move beneath her .  
She kept her eyes lowered , watching where she placed her feet .  
They walked among the pavilions , each with its banner and its armor hung outside , the silence weighing heavier with every step .  
Sansa could not bear the sight of him , he frightened her so , yet she had been raised in all the ways of courtesy .  
Did you see him ride today ? ''  
He was mocking her , she realized .  
`` Some septa trained you well .  
You 're like one of those birds from the Summer Isles , are n't you ?  
`` You 're frightening me .  
`` No one could withstand him , `` the Hound rasped .  
Fool boy , he had no business riding in this company .  
You think Gregor did n't notice that ?  
You think Ser Gregor 's lance rode up by chance , do you ?  
Gregor 's lance goes where Gregor wants it to go .  
Sandor Clegane put a huge hand under her chin and forced her face up .  
He squatted in front of her , and moved the torch close .  
You know you want to .  
I 've watched you turning away all the way down the kingsroad .  
He wore it long and brushed it sideways , because no hair grew on the other side of that face .  
A woodcarver set up shop in the village under my father 's keep , and to buy favor he sent us gifts .  
I do n't remember what I got , but it was Gregor 's gift I wanted .  
So I took his knight , but there was no joy to it , I tell you .  
I was scared all the while , and true enough , he found me .  
Gregor never said a word , just picked me up under his arm and shoved the side of my face down in the burning coals and held me there while I screamed and screamed .  
Even then , it took three grown men to drag him off me .  
Gregor got his ointments too .  
Four years later , they anointed him with the seven oils and he recited his knightly vows and Rhaegar Targaryen tapped him on the shoulder and said , 'Arise , Ser Gregor . '  
She was sad for him , she realized .  
The silence went on and on , so long that she began to grow afraid once more , but she was afraid for him now , not for herself .  
She found his massive shoulder with her hand .  
Sansa stumbled back , away from him , but he caught her arm .  
He led her to where the carts were waiting , told a driver to take them back to the Red Keep , and climbed in after her .  
He opened the postern door and led her into the castle , his burned face twitching and his eyes brooding , and he was one step behind her as they climbed the tower stairs .  
He took her safe all the way to the corridor outside her bedchamber .  
The Hound caught her by the arm and leaned close .  
`` If you ever tell Joffrey ... your sister , your father ... any of them ... '' `` I wo n't , '' Sansa whispered .  
`` He had no one else .  
A mother in the Vale , I am told . ''  
He had not been handsome , but death had smoothed his rough-hewn features and the silent sisters had dressed him in his best velvet tunic , with a high collar to cover the ruin the lance had made of his throat .  
Eddard Stark looked at his face , and wondered if it had been for his sake that the boy had died .  
He supposed he would never know .  
`` The king knighted him before he rode north , in Jon 's memory .  
The lad wanted it desperately , yet I fear he was not ready . ''  
Ned had slept badly last night and he felt tired beyond his years .  
When his mother asked why her son was dead , he reflected bitterly , they would tell her he had fought to honor the King 's Hand , Eddard Stark .  
`` The boy had it forged special for the tourney .  
I do not know if he had finished paying the smith . ''  
`` He paid yesterday , my lord , and he paid dearly , '' Ned replied .  
She bowed her head .  
Afterward Ser Barristan walked with Ned to the king 's pavilion .  
A serving man with a goose under his arm bent his knee when he caught sight of them .  
The shields displayed outside each tent heralded its occupant : the silver eagle of Seagard , Bryce Caron 's field of nightingales , a cluster of grapes for the Redwynes , brindled boar , red ox , burning tree , white ram , triple spiral , purple unicorn , dancing maiden , blackadder , twin towers , horned owl , and last the pure white blazons of the Kingsguard , shining like the dawn .  
Jory had woken him last night to bring him that news .  
They found Robert drinking beer from a polished horn and roaring his displeasure at two young squires who were trying to buckle him into his armor .  
`` Do I have to do it myself ?  
My wife insisted I take these two to squire for me , and they 're worse than useless .  
I say they 're swineherds dressed up in silk . ''  
Robert Baratheon took a long swallow of beer , tossed the empty horn onto his sleeping furs , wiped his mouth with the back of his hand , and said darkly , `` Fat ?  
He let go his laughter , sudden as a storm .  
`` Ah , damn you , Ned , why are you always right ? ''  
Tell him I need the breastplate stretcher .  
Robert managed to keep a stern face until they were gone .  
Even Eddard Stark managed a smile .  
`` Ah , I wish I could be there to see Santagar 's face , '' Robert said .  
`` I hope he 'll have the wit to send them to someone else .  
We ought to keep them running all day ! ''  
He had nothing against the squires , but it troubled him to see Robert surrounded by the queen 's kin , waking and sleeping .  
She 's sulking in the castle now , damn her .  
`` You never knew Lyanna as I did , Robert , '' Ned told him .  
`` You saw her beauty , but not the iron underneath .  
She would have told you that you have no business in the melee . ''  
Too long in the north , all the juices have frozen inside you .  
He slapped his chest to prove it .  
Seven hells , Ned , I want to hit someone . ''  
He saw at once that Selmy had hit the mark .  
`` Are you telling me those prancing cravens will let me win ? ''  
He snatched up his breastplate from the ground and threw it at Barristan Selmy in a wordless fury .  
Robert took up his horn again , filled it with beer from a barrel in the corner , and thrust it at Ned .  
You and Jon Arryn , I loved you both .  
You made me king , you could at least have the courtesy to listen when I talk , damn you .  
I swear to you , I was never so alive as when I was winning this throne , or so dead as now that I 've won it .  
And Cersei ... I have Jon Arryn to thank for her .  
I had no wish to marry after Lyanna was taken from me , but Jon said the realm needed an heir .  
Cersei Lannister would be a good match , he told me , she would bind Lord Tywin to me should Viserys Targaryen ever try to win back his father 's throne . ''  
`` I loved that old man , I swear it , but now I think he was a bigger fool than Moon Boy .  
Oh , Cersei is lovely to look at , truly , but cold ... the way she guards her cunt , you 'd think she had all the gold of Casterly Rock between her legs .  
He took the horn , upended it , belched , wiped his mouth .  
My son ... you love your children , do n't you ? ''  
`` Let me tell you a secret , Ned .  
You know what stops me ?  
The thought of Joffrey on the throne , with Cersei standing behind him whispering in his ear .  
He had small liking for Prince Joffrey , but he could hear the pain in Robert 's voice .  
`` Have you forgotten how wild you were at his age ? ''  
You do n't know him as I do . ''  
He sighed and shook his head .  
Jon despaired of me often enough , yet I grew into a good king . ''  
Robert looked at Ned and scowled at his silence .  
`` Your Grace ... '' Ned began , carefully .  
Robert slapped Ned on the back .  
`` Ah , say that I 'm a better king than Aerys and be done with it .  
I 'm still young , and now that you 're here with me , things will be different .  
Who do you think our champion will be today ?  
Have you seen Mace Tyrell 's boy ?  
The Knight of Flowers , they call him .  
Last tourney , he dumped the Kingslayer on his golden rump , you ought to have seen the look on Cersei 's face .  
I laughed till my sides hurt .  
Renly says he has this sister , a maid of fourteen , lovely as a dawn ... '' They broke their fast on black bread and boiled goose eggs and fish fried up with onions and bacon , at a trestle table by the river 's edge .  
The king 's melancholy melted away with the morning mist , and before long Robert was eating an orange and waxing fond about a morning at the Eyrie when they had been boys .  
Only the things had gone rotten , so I flung mine across the table and hit Dacks right in the nose .  
He tossed one back at me , and before Jon could so much as fart , there were oranges flying across the High Hall in every direction . ''  
He laughed uproariously , and even Ned smiled , remembering .  
This was the boy he had grown up with , he thought ; this was the Robert Baratheon he 'd known and loved .  
If he could prove that the Lannisters were behind the attack on Bran , prove that they had murdered Jon Arryn , this man would listen .  
Then Cersei would fall , and the Kingslayer with her , and if Lord Tywin dared to rouse the west , Robert would smash him as he had smashed Rhaegar Targaryen on the Trident .  
As he saw Robert to his place , he noted that Cersei Lannister had chosen not to appear ; the place beside the king was empty .  
He shouldered his way to where his daughter was seated and found her as the horns blew for the day 's first joust .  
Sansa was so engrossed she scarcely seemed to notice his arrival .  
The horse wore a blanket of gilded ringmail , and Jaime glittered from head to heel .  
Sandor Clegane dropped his visor with an audible clang and took up his position .  
The Hound leaned forward as he rode , his lance rock steady , but Jaime shifted his seat deftly in the instant before impact .  
Whispering Woods shattered , and the Hound reeled , fighting to keep his seat .  
`` I wonder how I ought spend your money , '' Littlefinger called down to Lord Renly .  
This time , when Jaime shifted his seat , Sandor Clegane shifted with him .  
Both lances exploded , and by the time the splinters had settled , a riderless blood bay was trotting off in search of grass while Ser Jaime Lannister rolled in the dirt , golden and dented .  
Sansa said , `` I knew the Hound would win . ''  
`` If you know who 's going to win the second match , speak up now before Lord Renly plucks me clean , '' he called to her .  
Jaime Lannister was back on his feet , but his ornate lion helmet had been twisted around and dented in his fall , and now he could not get it off .  
The commons were hooting and pointing , the lords and ladies were trying to stifle their chuckles , and failing , and over it all Ned could hear King Robert laughing , louder than anyone .  
Robert Baratheon and his brothers were all big men , as was the Hound , and back at Winterfell there was a simpleminded stableboy named Hodor who dwarfed them all , but the knight they called the Mountain That Rides would have towered over Hodor .  
His destrier seemed a pony in between his armored legs , and the lance he carried looked as small as a broom handle .  
He had been with Lord Tywin when King 's Landing fell , a new-made knight of seventeen years , even then distinguished by his size and his implacable ferocity .  
Some said it had been Gregor who 'd dashed the skull of the infant prince Aegon Targaryen against a wall , and whispered that afterward he had raped the mother , the Dornish princess Elia , before putting her to the sword .  
Ned Stark could not recall ever speaking to the man , though Gregor had ridden with them during Balon Greyjoy 's rebellion , one knight among thousands .  
Ned seldom put much stock in gossip , but the things said of Ser Gregor were more than ominous .  
Gregor had inherited the keep , the gold , and the family estates .  
His younger brother Sandor had left the same day to take service with the Lannisters as a sworn sword , and it was said that he had never returned , not even to visit .  
When the Knight of Flowers made his entrance , a murmur ran through the crowd , and he heard Sansa 's fervent whisper , `` Oh , he 's so beautiful . ''  
The commons realized in the same instant as Ned that the blue of the flowers came from sapphires ; a gasp went up from a thousand throats .  
Ser Gregor 's huge stallion trumpeted as he caught her scent .  
The boy from Highgarden did something with his legs , and his horse pranced sideways , nimble as a dancer .  
`` Father , do n't let Ser Gregor hurt him , '' she said .  
Ned saw she was wearing the rose that Ser Loras had given her yesterday .  
Yet he remembered the dead boy in the cart with his cloak of crescent moons , and the words were raw in his throat .  
The Knight of Flowers saluted the king , rode to the far end of the list , and couched his lance , ready .  
Ser Gregor brought his animal to the line , fighting with the reins .  
Ser Gregor wrenched his shield into position , juggled with his lance , and all the while fought to hold his unruly mount on a straight line , and suddenly Loras Tyrell was on him , placing the point of his lance just there , and in an eye blink the Mountain was failing .  
He was so huge that he took his horse down with him in a tangle of steel and flesh .  
His sapphires winked in the sun as he raised his visor , smiling .  
In the middle of the field , Ser Gregor Clegane disentangled himself and came boiling to his feet .  
He wrenched off his helm and slammed it down onto the ground .  
Gregor Clegane killed the horse with a single blow of such ferocity that it half severed the animal 's neck .  
The stallion went to its knees , screaming as it died .  
The Knight of Flowers was shouting for his own sword as Ser Gregor knocked his squire aside and made a grab for the reins of his horse .  
Loras Tyrell kept his seat , but barely .  
Ser Gregor swung his sword , a savage twohanded blow that took the boy in the chest and knocked him from the saddle .  
The courser dashed away in panic as Ser Loras lay stunned in the dirt .  
But as Gregor lifted his sword for the killing blow , a rasping voice warned , `` Leave him be , `` and a steel-clad hand wrenched him away from the boy .  
The Mountain pivoted in wordless fury , swinging his longsword in a killing arc with all his massive strength behind it , but the Hound caught the blow and turned it , and for what seemed an eternity the two brothers stood hammering at each other as a dazed Loras Tyrell was helped to safety .  
Thrice Ned saw Ser Gregor aim savage blows at the hound's-head helmet , yet not once did Sandor send a cut at his brother 's unprotected face .  
Jon Arryn had told them that a commander needs a good battlefield voice , and Robert had proved the truth of that on the Trident .  
Ser Gregor 's blow cut air , and at last he came to his senses .  
He dropped his sword and glared at Robert , surrounded by his Kingsguard and a dozen other knights and guardsmen .  
Sansa asked Ned .  
A few moments later Ser Loras Tyrell walked back onto the field in a simple linen doublet and said to Sandor Clegane , `` I owe you my life .  
They cheered him as he left the lists to return to his pavilion .  
As Ned walked with Sansa to the archery field , Littlefinger and Lord Renly and some of the others fell in with them .  
`` I swear the boy planned the whole thing .  
Ned sent Alyn to seek him out and offer him a position with the Hand 's guard , but the boy was flush with wine and victory and riches undreamed of , and he refused .  
He had won melees before ; the fire sword frightened the mounts of the other riders , and nothing frightened Thoros .  
Jory brought Arya down to join them , and Sansa spoke to her sister pleasantly .  
`` I hope Forel is not being too hard on you , '' he said .  
`` Syrio says that every hurt is a lesson , and every lesson makes you better . ''  
The man Syrio Forel had come with an excellent reputation , and his flamboyant Braavosi style was well suited to Arya 's slender blade , yet still ... a few days ago , she had been wandering around with a swatch of black silk tied over her eyes .  
Syrio was teaching her to see with her ears and her nose and her skin , she told him .  
Before that , he had her doing spins and back flips .  
If you like , I will ask Jory to take over your lessons .  
Ned ran his fingers through his hair .  
Any decent master-at-arms could give Arya the rudiments of slash-and-parry without this nonsense of blindfolds , cartwheels , and hopping about on one leg , but he knew his youngest daughter well enough to know there was no arguing with that stubborn jut of jaw .  
Much later , after he had taken the girls back through the city and seen them both safe in bed , Sansa with her dreams and Arya with her bruises , Ned ascended to his own chambers atop the Tower of the Hand .  
Across the Great Yard , he noticed the flickering glow of candlelight from Littlefinger 's windows .  
He took out the dagger and studied it .  
Why would the dwarf want Bran dead ?  
The dagger , Bran 's fall , all of it was linked somehow to the murder of Jon Arryn , he could feel it in his gut , but the truth of Jon 's death remained as clouded to him as when he had started .  
Lysa Arryn held her silence behind the high walls of the Eyrie .  
What did he have but Robert 's bastard ?  
Gendry had to be Robert 's .  
He had openly acknowledged one of his bastards , a boy of Bran 's age whose mother was highborn .  
Ned remembered Robert 's first child as well , a daughter born in the Vale when Robert was scarcely more than a boy himself .  
He used to make daily visits to play with the babe , long after he had lost interest in the mother .  
Ned was often dragged along for company , whether he willed it or not .  
The girl would be seventeen or eighteen now , he realized ; older than Robert had been when he fathered her .  
Cersei could not have been pleased by her lord husband 's by-blows , yet in the end it mattered little whether the king had one bastard or a hundred .  
Gendry , the girl in the Vale , the boy at Storm 's End , none of them could threaten Robert 's trueborn children ... His musings were ended by a soft rap on his door .  
He had never seen the eunuch dress in anything but silk and velvet and the richest damasks , and this man smelled of sweat instead of lilacs .  
Porther and Cayn had been posted outside the tower , and Alyn on the stairs .  
`` I will not keep you long , my lord .  
`` Your friend , I know , yet a fool nonetheless ... and doomed , unless you save him .  
Varys sipped his wine .  
`` If I truly need to tell you that , you are a bigger fool than Robert and I am on the wrong side . ''  
She asked him not to fight ! ''  
Tell me truly , do you know any surer way to force King Robert into the melee ?  
Amidst all that chaos , with horses screaming and bones breaking and Thoros of Myr waving that absurd firesword of his , who could name it murder if some chance blow felled His Grace ? ''  
He went to the flagon and refilled his cup .  
I can almost hear him weeping .  
Ned felt his anger rise .  
`` You knew of this plot , and yet you did nothing . ''  
`` Oh , yes , I confess it .  
And when Robert heard of his peril , what would he have done ?  
`` He would have damned them all , and fought anyway , to show he did not fear them . ''  
you ask , and I must answer , Why , because I did not trust you , my lord .  
`` You did not trust me ? ''  
Until this morning , I could not say which you might be ... so I waited to see ... and now I know , for a certainty . ''  
`` I begin to comprehend why the queen fears you so much .  
I am what I am .  
The king makes use of me , but it shames him .  
`` But you , Lord Stark ... I think ... no , I know ... he would not kill you , not even for his queen , and there may lie our salvation . ''  
For a moment Eddard Stark wanted nothing so much as to return to Winterfell , to the clean simplicity of the north , where the enemies were winter and the wildlings beyond the Wall .  
Ser Barristan loves his honor , Grand Maester Pycelle loves his office , and Littlefinger loves Littlefinger . ''  
The days when men like Ryam Redwyne and Prince Aemon the Dragonknight wore the white cloak are gone to dust and song .  
Ser Boros and Ser Meryn are the queen 's creatures to the bone , and I have deep suspicions of the others .  
Pray , send for Ser Ilyn directly , it will save us all some time .  
But my little birds will be listening , and together we may be able to forestall them , you and U ' He rose and pulled up his cowl so his face was hidden once more .  
He was at the door when Ned called , `` Varys. `` The eunuch turned back .  
`` The tears of Lys , they call it .  
I begged Lord Arryn to use a taster , in this very room I begged him , but he would not hear of it .  
Only one who was less than a man would even think of such a thing , he told me . ''  
All he was , he owed Jon Arryn , but when the widow fled to the Eyrie with her household , he stayed in King 's Landing and prospered .  
A pity he died so untimely , before you could talk to him ... '' Ned felt half-poisoned himself .  
What was he doing that they had to kill him ? ''  
As he stood in the predawn chill watching Chiggen butcher his horse , Tyrion Lannister chalked up one more debt owed the Starks .  
Steam rose from inside the carcass when the squat sellsword opened the belly with his skinning knife .  
`` Do you take me for a Dothraki ? ''  
`` My brother Jaime gave me that mare for my twenty-third name day , '' Tyrion said in a flat voice .  
`` Better if you fry it up with onions , '' Bronn put in .  
Wordlessly , Tyrion limped away .  
He had hours more riding ahead of him , followed by a few mouthfuls of food and a short , cold sleep on hard ground , and then another night of the same , and another , and another , and the gods only knew how it would end .  
One moment he 'd been ordering supper , and an eye blink later he was facing a room of armed men , with Jyck reaching for a sword and the fat innkeep shrieking , '' No swords , not here , please , m'lords . ''  
Tyrion wrenched down Jyck 's arm hurriedly , before he got them both hacked to pieces .  
He forced a smile that must have looked as queasy as it felt .  
The blade he sent to open my son 's throat . ''  
Strangers all , friendly enough only a moment ago , and yet now they cried for his blood like hounds on a trail .  
`` If Lady Stark believes I have some crime to answer for , I will go with her and answer for it . ''  
A good dozen swords had responded to the Stark woman 's plea for help : the Harrenhal man , the three Brackens , a pair of unsavory sellswords who looked as though they 'd kill him as soon as spit , and some fool field hands who doubtless had no idea what they were doing .  
Jyck swung a fair enough sword , but Morrec scarcely counted ; he was part groom , part cook , part body servant , and no soldier .  
Scarlet-tinged spittle flew from the fat innkeep 's mouth as she begged of Catelyn Stark , `` Do n't kill him here ! ''  
`` Take him somewheres else , no blood here , m'lady , I wants no high lordlin 's quarrels . ''  
He was not altogether displeased by what he saw .  
Force them to make a public affirmation of the oaths sworn her father by the lords they served , and then call on them for succor , and her a woman , yes , that was sweet .  
Only two of the Freys had stirred , Tyrion noted , and they 'd sat back down quick enough when their captain failed to move .  
Lord Tywin would do no such thing , of course , but Tyrion would make up for it if he won free .  
Ser Rodrik glanced at his lady , his look worried , as well it might be .  
Unless he took the whole inn , the word would begin to spread the instant they were gone .  
The Freys would report back to their lord , and the gods only knew what he might do .  
If any of you choose to help us guard our captives and get them safe to Winterfell , I promise you shall be well rewarded . ''  
That was all it took ; the fools came rushing forward .  
Tyrion studied their faces ; they would indeed be well rewarded , he vowed to himself , but perhaps not quite as they imagined .  
Yet even as they were bundling him outside , saddling the horses in the rain , and tying his hands with a length of coarse rope , Tyrion Lannister was not truly afraid .  
Even when they were safely away from the inn , and Catelyn Stark slowed them to a trot , it was a miserable pounding journey over rough ground , made worse by his blindness .  
The hood muffled sound , so he could not make out what was being said around him , and the rain soaked through the cloth and made it cling to his face , until even breathing was a struggle .  
I was about to settle down to a warm fire and a roast fowl , and that wretched singer had to open his mouth , he thought mournfully .  
The rain had finally stopped and dawn light was seeping through the wet cloth over his eyes when Catelyn Stark gave the command to dismount .  
Rough hands pulled him down from his horse , untied his wrists , and yanked the hood off his head .  
When he saw the narrow stony road , the foothills rising high and wild all around them , and the jagged snowcapped peaks on the distant horizon , all the hope went out of him in a rush .  
You said we were riding for Winterfell ! ''  
`` No doubt your friends will ride that way when they come after us .  
All his life Tyrion had prided himself on his cunning , the only gift the gods had seen fit to give him , and yet this seven- times-damned shewolf Catelyn Stark had outwitted him at every turn .  
They stopped only as long as it took to feed and water the horses , and then they were off again .  
After the second night they no longer bound his hands , and once they had gained the heights they scarcely bothered to guard him at all .  
It seemed they did not fear his escape .  
If he did run , how far could he hope to go , alone and without provisions ?  
Yet still the Stark woman drove them forward relentlessly .  
He knew where they were bound .  
He had known it since the moment they pulled off his hood .  
These mountains were the domain of House Arryn , and the late Hand 's widow was a Tully , Catelyn Stark 's sister ... and no friend to the Lannisters .  
Tyrion had known the Lady Lysa slightly during her years at King 's Landing , and did not look forward to renewing the acquaintance .  
Jyck and Morrec huddled close , sullen and miserable .  
Mohor stood over them , leaning on his spear and wearing a rounded iron cap that made him look as if he had a bowl on his head .  
Nearby , Marillion the singer sat oiling his woodharp , complaining of what the damp was doing to his strings .  
`` This is the third horse we have lost- '' `` We will lose more than horses if we 're overtaken by the Lannisters , '' she reminded them .  
Tyrion had made a special effort to learn all their names , so he might thank them later for their tender treatment of him .  
A Lannister always paid his debts .  
Kurleket would learn that someday , as would his friends Lharys and Mohor , and the good Ser Willis , and the sellswords Bronn and Chiggen .  
Tyrion Lannister seated himself on a rock .  
Oh , no doubt the word has reached my father ... but my father does not love me overmuch , and I am not at all sure that he will bother to bestir himself . ''  
It was only half a lie ; Lord Tywin Lannister cared not a fig for his deformed son , but he tolerated no slights on the honor of his House .  
You 'll find no succor until you reach the Vale , and each mount you lose burdens the others all the more .  
I am small , and not strong , and if I die , then what 's the point ? ''  
`` If you wanted me dead , you had only to say the word , and one of these staunch friends of yours would gladly have given me a red smile . ''  
Lady Stark , whatever you may believe of me , I am not a stupid man .  
Just for a moment , he thought he saw a flicker of doubt in her eyes , but what she said was , '' Why would Petyr lie to me ? ''  
`` Why , every man at court has heard him tell how he took your maidenhead , my lady . ''  
Kurleket drew his dirk , a vicious piece of black iron .  
`` At your word , m'lady , I 'll toss his lying tongue at your feet . ''  
Catelyn Stark stared at Tyrion with a coldness on her face such as he had never seen .  
`` Petyr Baelish loved me once .  
He wanted my hand .  
Littlefinger has never loved anyone but Littlefinger , and I promise you that it is not your hand that he boasts of , it 's those ripe breasts of yours , and that sweet mouth , and the heat between your legs . ''  
Kurleket grabbed a handful of hair and yanked his head back in a hard jerk , baring his throat .  
`` Shall I bleed him , my lady ? ''  
`` Kill me and the truth dies with me , '' Tyrion gasped .  
`` How did Littlefinger tell you I came by this dagger of his ?  
`` You won it from him in a wager , during the tourney on Prince Joffrey 's name day . ''  
Ser Rodrik had sent Lharys scrambling up the rock face to watch the road while they took their rest .  
Tyrion sprang to his feet and seized her by the arm .  
She knew he was right , Tyrion could see it .  
The mountain clans cared nothing for the enmities of the great houses ; they would slaughter Stark and Lannister with equal fervor , as they slaughtered each other .  
They must have eyes out , m'lady ... hidden watchers ... they know we 're here . ''  
Marillion sat frozen , clutching his woodharp , his face as pale as milk , but Tyrion 's man Morrec bounded quickly to his feet and moved to help the knight with his armor .  
`` Oh , that you have , my lady ... on my honor as a Lannister . ''  
For a moment he thought she would spit at him , but instead she snapped , `` Arm them , '' and as quick as that she was pulling away .  
Ser Rodrik tossed Jyck his sword and scabbard , and wheeled to meet the foe .  
And Bronn rode up to offer Tyrion a double- bladed axe .  
He spat , and trotted off to form up beside Chiggen and Ser Rodrik .  
Ser Willis mounted up to join them , fumbling with his helmet , a metal pot with a thin slit for his eyes and a long black silk plume .  
`` I 'm a singer , I want no part of this fight ! ''  
There were no heralds , no banners , no horns nor drums , only the twang of bowstrings as Morrec and Lharys let fly , and suddenly the clansmen came thundering out of the dawn , lean dark men in boiled leather and mismatched armor , faces hidden behind barred halffielms .  
Tyrion felt a sudden urge to leap up , brandish his axe , and boom out , `` Casterly Rock ! ''  
but the insanity passed quickly and he crouched down lower .  
Ser Rodrik hammered at the big man in the shadowskin cloak , their horses dancing round each other as they traded blow for blow .  
When he opened his mouth to scream , only blood came out .  
Suddenly Marillion shrieked , covering his head with his woodharp as a horse leapt over their rock .  
The blade caught the charging horse in the throat with a meaty thunk , angling upward , and Tyrion almost lost his grip as the animal screamed and collapsed .  
As he struggled to yank the blade loose , he heard Marillion moaning under the bodies .  
`` Close your eyes and pretend you 're dead , '' he advised the singer before he hefted the axe and turned away .  
Jyck was cut down from behind while he sliced at a man in front of him , and later Tyrion stumbled over Kurleket 's body .  
The pig face had been smashed in with a mace , but Tyrion recognized the dirk as he plucked it from the man 's dead fingers .  
He was sliding it through his belt when he heard a woman 's scream .  
She had a dagger clutched awkwardly in her maimed hands , but her back was to the rock now and they had penned her on three sides .  
Let them have the bitch , Tyrion thought , and welcome to her , yet somehow he was moving .  
He caught the first man in the back of the knee before they even knew he was there , and the heavy axehead split flesh and bone like rotten wood .  
Tyrion ducked under his sword , lashed out with the axe , the man reeled backward ... and Catelyn Stark stepped up behind him and opened his throat .  
He could have sworn they had been fighting for half a day , but the sun seemed scarcely to have moved at all .  
Bronn asked later as he bent over Jyck 's body , pulling off his boots .  
Odd , he had never once noticed the pain during the battle .  
`` You need a woman now , '' Bronn said with a glint in his black eyes .  
Chiggen stopped looting the corpses of the brigands long enough to snort and lick his lips .  
The freeriders broke into laughter , and Tyrion grinned and thought , There 's a start .  
Afterward he knelt by the stream and washed the blood off his face in water cold as ice .  
As he limped back to the others , he glanced again at the slain .  
What weapons Bronn and Chiggen had left them were none too impressive .  
Mauls , clubs , a scythe ... He remembered the big man in the shadowskin cloak who had dueled Ser Rodrik with a two-handed greatsword , but when he found his corpse sprawled on the stony ground , the man was not so big after all , the cloak was gone , and Tyrion saw that the blade was badly notched , its cheap steel spotted with rust .  
They had only three dead ; two of Lord Bracken 's men-at-arms , Kurleket and Mohor , and his own man Jyck , who had made such a bold show with his bareback charge .  
`` Lady Stark , I urge you to press on , with all haste , '' Ser Willis Wode said , his eyes scanning the ridgetops warily through the slit in his helm .  
`` We drove them off for the moment , but they will not have gone far . ''  
`` My lady , I fear he speaks the truth , '' Ser Rodrik said wearily .  
The old knight had been wounded in the fight , a deep gash in his left arm and a spear thrust that grazed his neck , and he sounded his age .  
`` If we linger here , they will be on us again for a certainty , and we may not live through a second attack . ''  
Tyrion could see the anger in Catelyn 's face , but she had no choice .  
`` May the gods forgive us , then .  
He was about to mount when Lharys stepped up and said , `` I 'll take that dirk now , dwarf . ''  
`` Let him keep it . ''  
`` And see that he has his axe back as well .  
`` You have my thanks , lady , '' Tyrion said , mounting up .  
`` I trust you no more than I did before . ''  
He remembered how he had begun the journey , with his wrists bound and a hood pulled down over his head , and decided that this was a definite improvement .  
Lady Stark could keep her trust ; so long as he could keep the axe , he would count himself ahead in the game .  
Bronn took the rear , with Lady Stark safely in the middle , Ser Rodrik a shadow beside her .  
Marillion kept throwing sullen looks back at Tyrion as they rode .  
They heard the deep growls of shadowcats behind them before they had gone half a mile , and later the wild snarling of the beasts fighting over the corpses they had left behind .  
He kicked his horse and moved past the singer , up to Ser Rodrik and Catelyn Stark .  
Whatever you may believe of me , Lady Stark , I promise you this- I never bet against my family . ''  
Quiet as a shadow , she told herself , light as a feather .  
Her hands were covered with half-healed scratches , and both knees were scabbed over where she had scraped them raw in tumbles .  
At first even the cook 's huge fat kitchen cat had been able to elude her , but Syrio had kept her at it day and night .  
When she 'd run to him with her hands bleeding , he had said , `` So slow ?  
He had dabbed her wounds with Myrish fire , which burned so bad she had had to bite her lip to keep from screaming .  
One by one Arya had chased them down and snatched them up and brought them proudly to Syrio Forel ... all but this one , this one-eared black devil of a tomcat .  
Robert laughed so hard he like to burst .  
He had run her halfway across the castle ; twice around the Tower of the Hand , across the inner bailey , through the stables , down the serpentine steps , past the small kitchen and the pig yard and the barracks of the gold cloaks , along the base of the river wall and up more steps and back and forth over Traitor 's Walk , and then down again and through a gate and around a well and in and out of strange buildings until Arya did n't know where she was .  
Left , then right , he went ; and right , then left , went Arya , cutting off his escape .  
Quickly Jon as a snake , she thought .  
She hugged him to her chest , whirling and laughing aloud as his claws raked at the front of her leather jerkin .  
Ever so fast , she kissed him right between the eyes , and jerked her head back an instant before his claws would have found her face .  
Princess Myrcella and Prince Tommen , Arya thought .  
To her brother she said , '' He 's a ragged boy , is n't he ?  
They do n't know me , Arya realized .  
They do n't even know I 'm a girl .  
You do n't wear skirts and silks when you 're catching cats .  
Quickly she lowered her head and dropped to one knee .  
`` Boy , how did you come here ?  
If she answered , Tommen and Myrcella would know her for certain .  
`` Godwyn , bring him here , '' the septa said .  
Panic gripped her throat like a giant 's hand .  
Calmly as still water , she mouthed silently .  
As Godwyn reached for her , Arya moved .  
She leaned to her left , letting his fingers brush her arm , spinning around him , Smooth as summer silk .  
By the time he got himself turned , she was sprinting down the alley .  
Arya slid between legs as thick and white as marble columns , bounded to her feet , bowled into Prince Tommen and hopped over him when he sat down hard and said `` Oof , `` spun away from the second guard , and then she was past them all , running full out .  
Arya sprang back to her feet .  
She held her breath as she wriggled through .  
She was in for it now if they had recognized her , but she did n't think they had .  
Quiet as a shadow , she told herself .  
When they had first come to King 's Landing , she used to have bad dreams about getting lost in the castle .  
Father said the Red Keep was smaller than Winterfell , but in her dreams it had been immense , an endless stone maze with walls that seemed to shift and change behind her .  
Sometimes she would hear her father 's voice , but always from a long way off , and no matter how hard she ran after it , it would grow fainter and fainter , until it faded to nothing and Arya was alone in the dark .  
She hugged her bare knees tight against her chest and shivered .  
By the time she had reached eighty-seven , the room had begun to lighten as her eyes adjusted to the blackness .  
Huge empty eyes stared at her hungrily through the gloom , and dimly she saw the jagged shadows of long teeth .  
She closed her eyes and bit her lip and sent the fear away .  
She pretended that Syrio was beside her in the dark , whispering in her ear .  
Calm as still water , she told herself .  
She opened her eyes again .  
Arya got to her feet , moving warily .  
She ran her fingers down a tooth , black and sharp , a dagger made of darkness .  
`` It 's just a skull , it ca n't hurt me . ''  
For an instant she could feel its teeth digging into her shoulder , as if it wanted a bite of her flesh .  
Arya whirled , felt leather catch and tear as a huge fang nipped at her jerkin , and then she was running .  
Another skull loomed ahead , the biggest monster of all , but Arya did not even slow .  
Her hands found a heavy iron ring set in the wood , and she yanked at it .  
The door resisted a moment , before it slowly began to swing inward , with a creak so loud Arya was certain it could be heard all through the city .  
She opened the door just far enough to slip through , into the hallway beyond .  
Calm as still water , Arya told herself , but even when she gave her eyes a moment to adjust , there was nothing to see but the vague grey outline of the door she had come through .  
She wiggled her fingers in front of her face , felt the air move , saw nothing .  
A water dancer sees with all her senses , she reminded herself .  
She closed her eyes and steadied her breathing one two three , drank in the quiet , reached out with her hands .  
It seemed as if she had been walking a long ways when the wall ended abruptly and a draft of cold air blew past her cheek .  
From somewhere far below her , she heard noises .  
A flickering light brushed the wall ever so faintly , and she saw that she stood at the top of a great black well , a shaft twenty feet across plunging deep into the earth .  
Huge stones had been set into the curving walls as steps , circling down and down , dark as the steps to hell that Old Nan used to tell them of .  
A day , two days , a fortnight ... '' `` And when he learns the truth , what will he do ? ''  
Arya could see a wisp of grey smoke drifting up off the torch , writhing like a snake as it rose .  
`` The fools tried to kill his son , and what 's worse , they made a mummer 's farce of it .  
I warn you , the wolf and lion will soon be at each other 's throats , whether we will it or no . ''  
Do you take me for a wizard ? ''  
An instant later the man holding the torch climbed into her sight , his companion beside him .  
Arya crept back away from the well , dropped to her stomach , and flattened herself against the wall .  
She held her breath as the men reached the top of the steps .  
`` What would you have me do ? ''  
He was no one Arya had ever seen before , she was certain of it .  
Grossly fat , yet he seemed to walk lightly , carrying his weight on the balls of his feet as a water dancer might .  
Still as stone , Arya told herself , quiet as a shadow .  
`` If he does not bestir himself soon , it may be too late , '' the stout man in the steel cap said .  
Stannis Baratheon and Lysa Arryn have fled beyond my reach , and the whispers say they are gathering swords around them .  
The Knight of Flowers writes Highgarden , urging his lord father to send his sister to court .  
The girl is a maid of fourteen , sweet and beautiful and tractable , and Lord Renly and Ser Loras intend that Robert should bed her , wed her , and make a new queen .  
He has the bastard , he has the book , and soon enough he 'll have the truth .  
Lord Tywin will take that for an outrage , and Jaime has a queer affection for the Imp .  
Make haste , I reply .  
All I ask is that you work your magic awhile longer . ''  
They started down the hall in the direction Arya had come , past the room with the monsters .  
She let them get a long way ahead , then went creeping after them .  
The voices were fainter as the light dwindled ahead of her .  
The younger are safer ... treat them gently if they kept their tongues the risk ... '' Long after their voices had faded away , Arya could still see the light of the torch , a smoking star that bid her follow .  
Twice it seemed to disappear , but she kept on straight , and both times she found herself at the top of steep , narrow stairs , the torch glimmering far below her .  
Once she stumbled over a rock and fell against the wall , and her hand found raw earth supported by timbers , whereas before the tunnel had been dressed stone .  
She found the wall again and followed , blind and lost , pretending that Nymeria was padding along beside her in the darkness .  
At the end she was knee-deep in foulsmelling water , wishing she could dance upon it as Syrio might have , and wondering if she 'd ever see light again .  
It was full dark when finally Arya emerged into the night air .  
She found herself standing at the mouth of a sewer where it emptied into the river .  
She stank so badly that she stripped right there , dropping her soiled clothing on the riverbank as she dove into the deep black waters .  
She swam until she felt clean , and crawled out shivering .  
Some riders went past along the river road as Arya was washing her clothes , but if they saw the scrawny naked girl scrubbing her rags in the moonlight , they took no notice .  
She was miles from the castle , but from anywhere in King 's Landing you needed only to look up to see the Red Keep high on Aegon 's Hill , so there was no danger of losing her way .  
The portcullis was down and the gates barred , so she turned aside to a postern door .  
The gold cloaks who had the watch sneered when she told them to let her in .  
`` I want to see my father . ''  
`` I want to fuck the queen myself , for all the good it does me , '' the younger one said .  
Arya saw the blow coming even before it began .  
`` I 'm Arya Stark of Winterfell , and if you lay a hand on me my lord father will have both your heads on spikes .  
If you do n't believe me , fetch Jory Cassel or Vayon Poole from the Tower of the Hand . ''  
She put her hands on her hips .  
`` Now are you going to open the gate , or do you need a clout on the ear to help your hearing ? ''  
Her father was alone in the solar when Harwin and Fat Tom marched her in , an oil lamp glowing softly at his elbow .  
He was bent over the biggest book Arya had ever seen , a great thick tome with cracked yellow pages of crabbed script , bound between faded leather covers , but he closed it to listen to Harwin 's report .  
`` You realize I had half my guard out searching for you ? ''  
Eddard Stark said when they were alone .  
She 's in the sept praying for your safe return .  
Arya , you know you are never to go beyond the castle gates without my leave . ''  
`` Well , I did n't mean to .  
I was down in the dungeons , only they turned into this tunnel .  
It was all dark , and I did n't have a torch or a candle to see by , so I had to follow .  
I could n't go back the way I came on account of the monsters .  
Father , they were talking about killing you !  
They did n't see me , I was being still as stone and quiet as a shadow , but I heard them .  
They said you had a book and a bastard and if one Hand could die , why not a second ?  
Jon 's the bastard , I bet . ''  
Arya , what are you talking about ?  
`` There was a fat one with rings and a forked yellow beard , and another in mail and a steel cap , and the fat one said they had to delay but the other one told him he could n't keep juggling and the wolf and the lion were going to eat each other and it was a mummer 's farce . ''  
She had n't quite understood everything she 'd heard , and now it was all mixed up in her head .  
The one in the steel cap , he had the torch , he said that they had to hurry .  
I think he was a wizard . ''  
`` I warn you , Arya , if you 're spinning this thread of air- '' `` No , I told you , it was in the dungeons , by the place with the secret wall .  
I was chasing cats , and well ... '' She screwed up her face .  
If she admitted knocking over Prince Tommen , he would be really angry with her .  
These men you heard , you say they spoke of juggling and mummery ? ''  
She shook her head stubbornly .  
Tell Syrio Forel that I want a word with him- '' He was interrupted by a short , sudden knock .  
He was stooped and ugly , with an unkempt beard and unwashed clothes , yet Father greeted him pleasantly and asked his name .  
`` Yoren , as it please m'lord .  
`` Do you know my brothers ? ''  
`` Robb and Bran are at Winterfell , and Jon 's on the Wall .  
Jon Snow , he 's in the Night 's Watch too , you must know him , he has a direwolf , a white one with red eyes .  
`` When you ride back to the Wall , would you bring Jon a letter if I wrote one ? ''  
She wished Jon were here right now .  
`` I beg your forgiveness , Yoren .  
I 'm here to find men for the Wall , and when Robert next holds court , I 'll bend the knee and cry our need , see if the king and his Hand have some scum in the dungeons they 'd be well rid of .  
You might say as Benjen Stark is why we 're talking , though .  
It 's for his sake I 'm come .  
Rode hard , I did , near killed my horse the way I drove her , but I left the others well behind . ''  
That inn was full o ' them , and I saw them take the scent .  
Some went galloping for Casterly Rock , and the Rock lies closer .  
Yoren eyed Arya .  
He kissed her on the brow .  
she asked Yoren .  
The Snow boy was well enough when I left the Wall .  
Arya had no choice but to go with him , wishing it had been Fat Tom .  
she asked him as they descended to her bedchamber .  
Robert , I beg of you , '' Ned pleaded , `` hear what you are saying .  
`` I warned you this would happen , Ned .  
Back in the barrowlands , I warned you , but you did not care to hear it .  
Well , you 'll hear it now .  
`` You will dishonor yourself forever if you do this . ''  
`` Then let it be on my head , so long as it is done .  
I am not so blind that I can not see the shadow of the axe when it is hanging over my own neck . ''  
`` You would bring us the whisperings of a traitor half a world away , my lord .  
If she births a daughter in place of a son , we need not fear .  
If the babe dies in infancy , we need not fear . ''  
I shall fear the Dothraki the day they teach their horses to run on water . ''  
`` So you would counsel me to do nothing until the dragonspawn has landed his army on my shores , is that it ? ''  
`` Even Aegon did no conquering until after he was weaned . ''  
`` I understand your qualms , Lord Eddard , truly I do .  
Yet we who presume to rule must do vile things for the good of the realm , howevermuch it pains us . ''  
We ought to have had Viserys and his sister killed years ago , but His Grace my brother made the mistake of listening to Jon Arryn . ''  
`` On the Trident , Ser Barristan here cut down a dozen good men , Robert 's friends and mine .  
When they brought him to us , grievously wounded and near death , Roose Bolton of the Dreadfort urged us to cut his throat , but your brother said , 'I will not kill a man for loyalty , nor for fighting well , ' and sent his own maester to tend Ser Barristan 's wounds . ''  
Ned knew he was pushing this well past the point of wisdom , yet he could not keep silent .  
`` Robert , I ask you , what did we rise against Aerys Targaryen for , if not to put an end to the murder of children ? ''  
`` Your Grace , I never knew you to fear Rhaegar . ''  
`` Sadly , sadly Ser Barristan Selmy raised his pale blue eyes from the table and said , `` Your Grace , there is honor in facing an enemy on the battlefield , but none in killing him in his mother 's womb .  
Grand Maester Pycelle cleared his throat , a process that seemed to take some minutes .  
Once I counseled King Aerys as loyally as I counsel King Robert now , so I bear this girl child of his no ill will .  
As Ned looked to him , Lord Petyr stifled a yawn .  
Robert turned to face his Hand .  
You and Selmy stand alone on this matter .  
If I told you what the Dothraki would do to the poor man who used one on a khaleesi , none of you would sleep tonight . ''  
`` Now , poison ... the tears of Lys , let us say .  
Look her in the eyes before you kill her .  
`` You mean it , damn you . ''  
He reached for the flagon of wine at his elbow , found it empty , and flung it away to shatter against the wall .  
You will do as I command you , or I 'll find me a Hand who will . ''  
He laid it on the table in front of the king , saddened by the memory of the man who had pinned it on him , the friend he had loved .  
`` I thought you a better man than this , Robert .  
I thought we had made a nobler king . ''  
`` Out , `` he croaked , choking on his rage .  
`` Out , damn you , I 'm done with you .  
And make certain I never look on your face again , or I swear , I 'll have your head on a spike ! ''  
As he strode from the council chambers , the discussion resumed with scarcely a pause .  
He gave Ned a quick , curious glance from the corner of his eye , but asked no questions .  
The day felt heavy and oppressive as he crossed the bailey back to the Tower of the Hand .  
When he reached his solar , he summoned Vayon Poole .  
`` You sent for me , my lord Hand ? ''  
He did not truly believe the king would harm him , not Robert .  
He was angry now , but once Ned was safely out of sight , his rage would cool as it always did .  
Suddenly , uncomfortably , he found himself recalling Rhaegar Targaryen .  
Fifteen years dead , yet Robert hates him as much as ever .  
Inform Jory , but tell no one else , and do nothing until the girls and I have gone .  
When he had gone , Eddard Stark went to the window and sat brooding .  
Robert had left him no choice that he could see .  
Perhaps he and Catelyn would make a new son together when he returned , they were not so old yet .  
And of late he had often found himself dreaming of snow , of the deep quiet of the wolfswood at night .  
Oh , he had found a few pieces , enough to convince him that Jon had indeed been murdered , but that was no more than the spoor of an animal on the forest floor .  
He had not sighted the beast itself yet , though he sensed it was there , lurking , hidden , treacherous .  
It struck him suddenly that he might return to Winterfell by sea .  
Ned was no sailor , and ordinarily would have preferred the kingsroad , but if he took ship he could stop at Dragonstone and speak with Stannis Baratheon .  
Pycelle had sent a raven off across the water , with a polite letter from Ned requesting Lord Stannis to return to his seat on the small council .  
Lord Stannis shared the secret Jon Arryn had died for , he was certain of it .  
Ned slid the dagger that Catelyn had brought him out of the sheath on his belt .  
Why would the dwarf want Bran dead ?  
You knew the man , she had said .  
He summoned Vayon Poole again and sent him to the docks to make inquiries , quietly but quickly .  
Poole had no sooner taken his leave than Tomard announced a visitor .  
Ned was half-tempted to turn him away , but thought better of it .  
He wore a slashed velvet doublet in cream-and-silver , a grey silk cloak trimmed with black fox , and his customary mocking smile .  
Ned greeted him coldly .  
`` Might I ask the reason for this visit , Lord Baelish ? ''  
`` I wo n't detain you long , I 'm on my way to dine with Lady Tanda .  
She has some thought to wed me to her younger daughter , so her table is always astonishing .  
`` Do n't let me keep you from your eels , my lord , '' Ned said with icy disdain .  
`` Oh , I 'm certain if you put your mind to it , you could come up with a few names .  
He went on about you at some length after you took your leave of us this morning .  
The words insolence and ingratitude came into it frequently , I seem to recall . ''  
Nor did he offer his guest a seat , but Littlefinger took one anyway .  
`` After you stormed out , it was left to me to convince them not to hire the Faceless Men , '' he continued blithely .  
`` Instead Varys will quietly let it be known that we 'll make a lord of whoever does in the Targaryen girl . ''  
`` You sit in council and talk of ugly women and steel kisses , and now you expect me to believe that you tried to protect the girl ?  
How big a fool do you take me for ? ''  
`` It 's not murder I find amusing , Lord Stark , it 's you .  
You rule like a man dancing on rotten ice .  
I believe I heard the first crack this morning . ''  
`` I 've had my fill . ''  
`` None ... but if perchance you 're still here come evenfall , I 'd be pleased to take you to this brothel your man Jory has been searching for so ineffectually . ''  
My lady , you should have sent word of your coming , '' Ser Donnel Waynwood told her as their horses climbed the pass .  
`` We learned that to our sorrow , Ser Donnel , '' Catelyn said .  
Sometimes she felt as though her heart had turned to stone ; six brave men had died to bring her this far , and she could not even find it in her to weep for them .  
When we heard your men approaching , I thought us doomed for certain . ''  
The dwarf had been whetting the edge of his axe and making some mordant jest when Bronn spotted the banner the riders carried before them , the moon-and-falcon of House Arryn , sky-blue and white .  
`` The clans have grown bolder since Lord Jon died , '' Ser Donnel said .  
`` If it were up to me , I would take a hundred men into the mountains , root them out of their fastnesses , and teach them some sharp lessons , but your sister has forbidden it .  
He looked at her anxiously , as if he had suddenly remembered who she was .  
`` I hope I have not spoken out of turn , my lady .  
Catelyn knew what her sister feared .  
The two of them had grown thick as thieves since Chiggen had died .  
When they had entered the mountains , he had been her captive , bound and helpless .  
Her captive still , yet he rode along with a dirk through his belt and an axe strapped to his saddle , wearing the shadowskin cloak he 'd won dicing with the singer and the chainmail hauberk he 'd taken off Chiggen 's corpse .  
Two score men flanked the dwarf and the rest of her ragged band , knights and men-at-arms in service to her sister Lysa and Jon Arryn 's young son , and yet Tyrion betrayed no hint of fear .  
Six men had died to bring him here .  
Resolute , she pushed her doubts away .  
`` When we reach your keep , I would take it kindly if you could send for Maester Colemon at once .  
Toward the end he could scarcely sit his horse , and Bronn had urged her to leave him to his fate , but Catelyn would not hear of it .  
They had tied him in the saddle instead , and she had commanded Marillion the singer to watch over him .  
Ser Donnel hesitated before he answered .  
`` The Lady Lysa has commanded the maester to remain at the Eyrie at all times , to care for Lord Robert , '' he said .  
She was about to say as much when she saw the battlements ahead , long parapets built into the very stone of the mountains on either side of them .  
The Knight of the Gate lifted his visor .  
`` The years have not improved it , I fear , '' Brynden Tully said , but when he lifted off the helm , Catelyn saw that he lied .  
His features were lined and weathered , and time had stolen the auburn from his hair and left him only grey , but the smile was the same , and the bushy eyebrows fat as caterpillars , and the laughter in his deep blue eyes .  
`` Did Lysa know you were coming ? ''  
`` I fear we ride before the storm , Uncle . ''  
`` May we enter the Vale ? ''  
`` In the name of Robert Arryn , Lord of the Eyrie , Defender of the Vale , True Warden of the East , I bid you enter freely , and charge you to keep his peace , '' Ser Brynden replied .  
And so she rode behind him , beneath the shadow of the Bloody Gate where a dozen armies had dashed themselves to pieces in the Age of Heroes .  
It stretched before them to the misty cast , a tranquil land of rich black soil , wide slow-moving rivers , and hundreds of small lakes that shone like mirrors in the sun , protected on all sides by its sheltering peaks .  
They stood at the western end of the valley , where the high road crested the last pass and began its winding descent to the bottomlands two miles below .  
When her uncle saw that she had stopped , he moved his horse closer and pointed .  
All you can see from here is a flash of white every now and then , if you look hard and the sun hits the walls just right . ''  
Seven towers , Ned had told her , like white daggers thrust into the belly of the sky , so high you can stand on the parapets and look down on the clouds .  
His face sagged beneath his ragged , newgrown whiskers , and he looked so weary Catelyn feared he might fall off his horse .  
Beside Ser Rodrik , only Bronn , Ser Willis Wode , and Marillion the singer remained of the party that had ridden with her from the inn by the crossroads .  
`` I beg you allow me to accompany you to the Eyrie , to see the end of the tale as I saw its beginnings . ''  
The boy sounded haggard , yet strangely determined ; he had a fevered shine to his eyes .  
Catelyn had never asked the singer to ride with them ; that choice he had made himself , and how he had come to survive the journey when so many braver men lay dead and unburied behind them , she could never say .  
Yet here he was , with a scruff of beard that made him look almost a man .  
Perhaps she owed him something for having come this far .  
Without Bronn she would never have reached the Vale , she knew ; the sellsword was as fierce a fighter as she had ever seen , and his sword had helped cut them through to safety .  
And she had seen him riding beside Lannister far too often , talking in low voices and laughing at some private joke .  
She would have preferred to separate him from the dwarf here and now , but having agreed that Marillion might continue to the Eyrie , she could see no gracious way to deny that same right to Bronn .  
Ser Donnel promised to send birds ahead to the Eyrie and the Keeper of the Gates of the Moon with the word of their coming .  
Catelyn rode beside her uncle as they began the descent to the valley floor .  
Not until they were a third of the way down the mountain path , well out of earshot of the others , did Brynden Tully turn to her and say , `` So , child .  
It took longer than she would have believed to tell it all , Lysa 's letter and Bran 's fall , the assassin 's dagger and Littlefinger and her chance meeting with Tyrion Lannister in the crossroadsinn .  
He was Lord Hoster 's brother , younger by five years , but the two of them had been at war as far back as Catelyn could remember .  
During one of their louder quarrels , when Catelyn was eight , Lord Hoster had called Brynden `` the black goat of the Tully flock . ''  
Laughing , Brynden had pointed out that the sigil of their house was a leaping trout , so he ought to be a black fish rather than a black goat , and from that day forward he had taken it as his personal emblem .  
The war had not ended until the day she and Lysa had been wed .  
It was at their wedding feast that Brynden told his brother he was leaving Riverrun to serve Lysa and her new husband , the Lord of the Eyrie .  
Lord Hoster had not spoken his brother 's name since , from what Edmure told her in his infrequent letters .  
Nonetheless , during all those years of Catelyn 's girlhood , it had been Brynden the Brynden Blackfish to whom Lord Hoster 's children had run with their tears and their tales , when Father was too busy and Mother too ill. Catelyn , Lysa , Edmure ... and yes , even Petyr Baelish , their father 's ward ... he had listened to them all patiently , as he listened now , laughing at their triumphs and sympathizing with their childish misfortunes .  
`` If the Lannisters should march , Winterfell is remote and the Vale walled up behind its mountains , but Riverrun lies right in their path . ''  
`` I shall ask Maester Colemon to send a bird when we reach the Eyrie . ''  
She had other messages to send as well ; the commands that Ned had given her for his bannermen , to ready the defenses of the north .  
`` Lord Jon was much loved , and the insult was keenly felt when the king named Jaime Lannister to an office the Arryns had held for near three hundred years .  
Lysa has commanded us to call her son the True Warden of the East , but no one is fooled .  
He gave Catelyn a look , his mouth tight .  
She ducked her head as they passed under a low overhang of rock , and around a sharp turn .  
Jon Arryn 's trueborn heir , by all the gods , yet there are some who say he is too weak to sit his father 's seat , Nestor Royce has been high steward these past fourteen years , while Lord Jon served in King 's Landing , and many whisper that he should rule until the boy comes of age .  
`` She says yes , provided she finds a man who suits her , '' Brynden Tully said , `` but she has already rejected Lord Nestor and a dozen other suitable men .  
She swears that this time she will choose her lord husband . ''  
`` Nor do I , but ... it seems to me Lysa is only playing at courtship .  
She enjoys the sport , but I believe your sister intends to rule herself until her boy is old enough to be Lord of the Eyrie in truth as well as name . ''  
`` If truth be told , I fear you may not find your sister as helpful as you would like . ''  
`` They began the same , but your ending has been happier than your sister 's .  
Two babes stillborn , twice as many miscarriages , Lord Arryn 's death ... Catelyn , the gods gave Lysa only the one child , and he is all your sister lives for now , poor boy .  
Small wonder she fled rather than see him handed over to the Lannisters .  
She ran to the Vale , stealing away from the Red Keep like a thief in the night , and all to snatch her son out of the lion 's mouth ... and now you have brought the lion to her door . ''  
She reined up her horse and picked her way along step by careful step .  
Catelyn shifted uneasily in her seat .  
It was her own lord husband the Lannisters murdered , and her own letter that first warned us against them . ''  
The road widened and grew straight , and for the first time Catelyn noticed wildflowers and grasses growing .  
Catelyn raised her eyes , up and up and up .  
Vertigo washed over her as she stared upward at the pale towers , so far above .  
If you 're planning to make us climb that mountain in the dark , I 'd rather you kill me here . ''  
Ned had told her about them when he talked of his youth here with Robert Baratheon and Jon Arryn .  
If you prefer , my lord of Lannister , I can arrange for you to ride up with the bread and beer and apples . ''  
`` Alas , my lord father would no doubt be most chagrined if his son of Lannister went to his fate like a load of turnips .  
If you ascend on foot , I fear I must do the same .  
The drawbridge came creaking down before she could reply , and they heard the sound of oiled chains as the portcullis was drawn up .  
Lord Nestor Royce , High Steward of the Vale and Keeper of the Gates of the Moon , was waiting in the yard to greet them , surrounded by his knights .  
She knew the man only by reputation ; Bronze Yohn 's cousin , from a lesser branch of House Royce , yet still a formidable lord in his own right .  
`` I promise you , my lady , no harm will come to you .  
Mychel Redfort says my father must have been a goat . ''  
She sounded so cocky that Catelyn had to smile .  
`` Mya Stone , if it please you , my lady , '' the girl said .  
It did not please her ; it was an effort for Catelyn to keep the smile on her face .  
Catelyn had nothing against this girl , but suddenly she could not help but think of Ned 's bastard on the Wall , and the thought made her angry and guilty , both at once .  
`` Mya 's a clever girl , and if she vows she will bring you safely to the Lady Lysa , I believe her .  
She has not failed me yet . ''  
`` Then I put myself in your hands , Mya Stone , '' Catelyn said .  
`` Lord Nestor , I charge you to keep a close guard on my prisoner . ''  
`` And I charge you to bring the prisoner a cup of wine and a nicely crisped capon , before he dies of hunger , '' Lannister said .  
Catelyn took her leave of her uncle and the others as Tyrion Lannister was led off , then followed the bastard girl through the castle .  
`` Some people find it easier if they close their eyes , '' Mya said as she led the mules through the gate into the dark wood .  
`` When they get frightened or dizzy , sometimes they hold on to the mule too tight .  
Mychel says I have the eyes of the owl . ''  
`` You mentioned Mychel before , '' Catelyn said .  
We 're to wed as soon as he becomes a knight , next year or the year after . ''  
The Redforts were an old name in the Vale , she knew , with the blood of the First Men in their veins .  
The trees pressed close , leaning over the path to make a rustling green roof that shut out even the moon , so it seemed as though they were moving up a long black tunnel .  
But the mules were surefooted and tireless , and Mya Stone did indeed seem blessed with night-eyes .  
They plodded upward , winding their way back and forth across the face of the mountain as the steps twisted and turned .  
The trees were sparser up here , and the wind blew more vigorously , sharp gusts that tugged at her clothing and pushed her hair into her eyes .  
From time to time the steps doubled back on themselves , and she could see Stone below them , and the Gates of the Moon farther down , its torches no brighter than candles .  
The commander , an anxious young knight with a pockmarked face , offered bread and cheese and the chance to warm themselves before his fire , but Mya declined .  
Mya smiled when she saw him .  
So young , Catelyn thought , trying to remember if she had ever been like that .  
The girl had lived half her life in summer , and that was all she knew .  
Winter is coming , child , she wanted to tell her .  
The words were on her lips ; she almost said them .  
As they climbed , Catelyn found it was better to look up than down .  
The steps were cracked and broken from centuries of freeze and thaw and the tread of countless mules , and even in the dark the heights put her heart in her throat .  
When they came to a high saddle between two spires of rock , Mya dismounted .  
Catelyn climbed stiffly from the shadows and looked at the path ahead ; twenty feet long and close to three feet wide , but with a precipitous drop to either side .  
Mya stepped lightly out , her mule following as calmly as if they were crossing a bailey .  
Yet no sooner had she taken her first step than fear caught Catelyn in its jaws .  
The wind screamed at her and wrenched at her cloak , trying to pull her over the edge .  
Catelyn edged her foot backward , the most timid of steps , but the mule was behind her , and she could not retreat .  
I am going to die here , she thought .  
Catelyn Tully Stark swallowed what remained of her pride .  
Catelyn closed her eyes to steady her ragged breathing .  
Then Mya was there , taking her gently by the arm .  
I 'll lead you over , it 's easy , you 'll see .  
That 's it , move your foot , just slide it forward .  
Dawn was breaking in the east as Mya Stone hallooed for the guards , and the gates opened before them .  
Past here , well , it 's a sort of chimney , more like a stone ladder than proper steps , but it 's not too bad .  
The sun was well above the mountains by the time Catelyn Stark finally reached the Eyrie .  
Maester Colemon bobbed his head in agreement .  
She left orders to be awakened the instant you arrived . ''  
`` I hope she had a good night 's rest , '' Catelyn said with a certain bite in her tone that seemed to go unnoticed .  
It had no need of stables nor smithys nor kennels , but Ned said its granary was as large as Winterfell 's , and its towers could house five hundred men .  
Yet it seemed strangely deserted to Catelyn as she passed through it , its pale stone halls echoing and empty .  
A maid stood behind her , brushing out the night 's tangles , but when Catelyn entered , her sister rose to her feet , smiling .  
She ran across the chamber and wrapped her sister in her arms .  
Shorter than Catelyn , Lysa had grown thick of body , pale and puffy of face .  
As Catelyn held her , she remembered the slender , high-breasted girl who 'd waited beside her that day in the sept at Riverrun .  
How lovely and full of hope she had been .  
She seemed to notice the others then ; her maid , Maester Colemon , Ser Vardis .  
She held Catelyn 's hand as they withdrew ... ... and dropped it the instant the door closed .  
Catelyn saw her face change .  
`` To bring him here , without a word of permission , without so much as a warning , to drag us into your quarrels with the Lannisters ... '' `` My quarrels ? ''  
It was you who sent me that cursed letter , you who wrote that the Lannisters had murdered your husband . ''  
Gods , Cat , do you know what you 've done ? ''  
He was a painfully thin child , small for his age and sickly all his days , and from time to time he trembled .  
Small wonder , Catelyn thought ; Lysa had almost been shouting .  
Lysa seated herself near the fire and said , `` Come to Mother , my sweet one . ''  
And strong too , do n't you believe the things you hear .  
The seed is strong , he told me .  
He kept saying Robert 's name , and he grabbed my arm so hard he left marks .  
Ned thinks it may come to war . ''  
His doll fell to the rushes , and he pressed himself against his mother .  
The boy grabbed for it eagerly , buried his face against her chest , and began to suck .  
Lysa stroked his hair .  
Jon Anyn 's son , she thought incredulously .  
For the first time she understood why the king had tried to take the child away from his mother to foster with the Lannisters ... `` We 're safe here , '' Lysa was saying .  
Lysa covered her boy 's ear with her hand .  
Catelyn wanted to slap her .  
Uncle Brynden had tried to warn her , she realized .  
The only thing is , what am I to do with this Imp you have brought me ? ''  
Lysa stroked her son 's hair .  
From the look of it , he 'd lost his belt , his cloak , his mail shirt , and his right boot so far , while the girl had been forced to unbutton her shift to the waist .  
Jory Cassel stood beside a rain-streaked window with a wry smile on his face , watching Heward turn over tiles and enjoying the view .  
`` It 's time we took our leave .  
`` I 'll help Wyl bring round the horses . ''  
Littlefinger took his time saying his farewells .  
They say the Hand dreams the king 's dreams , speaks with the king 's voice , and rules with the king 's sword .  
That does not mean I intend to endure your mockery .  
Young Wyl came right behind him , leading Littlefinger 's mare with one hand while the other fumbled with his belt and the lacings of his trousers .  
`` Will we be going back to the castle now , my lord ? ''  
`` I 've half a mind to buy it .  
Ned let him prattle on .  
After a time , he quieted and they rode in silence .  
`` I hear he has gotten a child on some girl in the Vale . ''  
Ned had held the babe in his arms ; he could scarcely deny her , nor would he lie to his sister , but he had assured her that what Robert did before their betrothal was of no matter , that he was a good man and true who would love her with all his heart .  
The girl had been so young Ned had not dared to ask her age .  
She had light red hair and a powdering of freckles across the bridge of her nose , and when she slipped free a breast to give her nipple to the babe , he saw that her bosom was freckled as well .  
`` I named her Barra , '' she said as the child nursed .  
`` She looks so like him , does she not , milord ?  
She has his nose , and his hair ... '' `` She does . ''  
`` Tell him that when you see him , milord , as it ... as it please you .  
Robert would swear undying love and forget them before evenfall , but Ned Stark kept his vows .  
He thought of the promises he 'd made Lyanna as she lay dying , and the price he 'd paid to keep them .  
`` And tell him I 've not been with no one else .  
I swear it , milord , by the old gods and new .  
Chataya said I could have half a year , for the baby , and for hoping he 'd come back .  
So you 'll tell him I 'm waiting , wo n't you ?  
`` I will tell him , child , and I promise you , Barra shall not go wanting . ''  
She had smiled then , a smile so tremulous and sweet that it cut the heart out of him .  
Riding through the rainy night , Ned saw Jon Snow 's face in front of him , so like a younger version of his own .  
If the gods frowned so on bastards , he thought dully , why did they fill men with such lusts ?  
`` Lord Baelish , what do you know of Robert 's bastards ? ''  
`` Well , he has more than you , for a start . ''  
I know he 's acknowledged that boy at Storm 's End , the one he fathered the night Lord Stannis wed .  
Renly says that Robert carried the girl upstairs during the feast , and broke in the wedding bed while Stannis and his bride were still dancing .  
Lord Stannis seemed to think that was a blot on the honor of his wife 's House , so when the boy was born , he shipped him off to Renly . ''  
`` I 've also heard whispers that Robert got a pair of twins on a serving wench at Casterly Rock , three years ago when he went west for Lord Tywin 's tourney .  
Cersei had the babes killed , and sold the mother to a passing slaver .  
He could believe it of Cersei Lannister readily enough ... but would the king stand by and let it happen ?  
The Robert he had known would not have , but the Robert he had known had never been so practiced at shutting his eyes to things he did not wish to see .  
Doubtless Robert asked him to see that they were provided for . ''  
Lord Arryn learned that His Grace had filled the bellies of some whores and fishwives , and for that he had to be silenced .  
Allow a man like that to live , and next he 's like to blurt out that the sun rises in the east . ''  
For the first time in years , he found himself remembering Rhaegar Targaryen .  
He wondered if Rhaegar had frequented brothels ; somehow he thought not .  
he heard Wyl cry , and when he turned his horse , there were more in back of them , cutting off their retreat .  
Littlefinger walked his horse forward , step by careful step .  
What do you think you 're doing ? ''  
`` He knows what he 's doing , '' Ned said calmly .  
You remember my brother , do n't you , Lord Stark ?  
`` I remember him well , '' Ned replied .  
`` It would seem he has met some trouble on the road .  
`` My lords- '' Ser Jaime ripped his longsword from its sheath and urged his stallion forward .  
I 'll butcher you like Aerys if I must , but I 'd sooner you died with a blade in your hand . ''  
He gave Littlefinger a cool , contemptuous glance .  
`` Lord Baelish , I 'd leave here in some haste if I did not care to get bloodstains on my costly clothing . ''  
Littlefinger put his heels to his mare and vanished around a corner .  
Ned 's men had drawn their swords , but they were three against twenty .  
A charge might win them free , but it seemed to Eddard Stark that they had a surer , safer tactic .  
`` So I suppose I 'll let you run back to Robert to tell him how I frightened you .  
When he was beyond the line of swordsmen , he glanced back at his captain .  
`` Still ... we would n't want him to leave here entirely unchastened , so '' -through the night and the rain , he glimpsed the white of Jaime 's smile- '' kill his men . ''  
Jaime was already cantering off down the street as he heard Wyl shout .  
Jory Cassel put his heels into his mount and charged .  
Wyl cursed as they pulled him off his dying horse , swords slashing in the rain .  
Ned galloped to him , bringing his longsword down on Tregar 's helm .  
The jolt of impact made him grit his teeth .  
Tregar stumbled to his knees , his lion crest sheared in half , blood running down his face .  
He saw them cut the legs from Jory 's mount and drag him to the earth , swords rising and failing as they closed in around him .  
When Ned 's horse lurched back to its feet , he tried to rise , only to fall again , choking on his scream .  
When he opened his eyes again , Lord Eddard Stark was alone with his dead .  
Ned began to drag himself through the mud , gritting his teeth at the agony in his leg .  
Littlefinger and the City Watch found him there in the street , cradling Jory Cassel 's body in his arms .  
Somewhere the gold cloaks found a litter , but the trip back to the castle was a blur of agony , and Ned lost consciousness more than once .  
He remembered seeing the Red Keep looming ahead of him in the first grey light of dawn .  
He remembered swallowing , and Pycelle was telling someone to heat the wine to boiling and fetch him clean silk , and that was the last he knew .  
Dany could not have said why the city needed a gate when it had no walls ... and no buildings that she could see .  
Dany followed on her silver , escorted by Ser Jorah Mormont and her brother Viserys , mounted once more .  
After the day in the grass when she had left him to walk back to the khalasar , the Dothraki had laughingly called him Khal Rhae Mhar , the Sorefoot King .  
Khal Drogo had offered him a place in a cart the next day , and Viserys had accepted .  
In his stubborn ignorance , he had not even known he was being mocked ; the carts were for eunuchs , cripples , women giving birth , the very young and the very old .  
That won him yet another name : Khal Rhaggat , the Cart King .  
Her brother had thought it was the khal 's way of apologizing for the wrong Dany had done him .  
She had begged Ser Jorah not to tell him the truth , lest he be shamed .  
The knight had replied that the king could well do with a bit of shame ... yet he had done as she bid .  
It had taken much pleading , and all the pillow tricks Doreah had taught her , before Dany had been able to make Drogo relent and allow Viserys to rejoin them at the head of the column .  
she asked as they passed beneath the bronze arch .  
The forgotten deities of dead cities brandished their broken thunderbolts at the sky as Dany rode her silver past their feet .  
Stone kings looked down on her from their thrones , their faces chipped and stained , even their names lost in the mists of time .  
Some of the statues were so lovely they took her breath away , others so misshapen and terrible that Dany could scarcely bear to look at them .  
Those , Ser Jorah said , had likely come from the Shadow Lands beyond Asshai .  
He was careful to speak in the Common Tongue , which few Dothraki could understand , yet even so Dany found herself glancing back at the men of her khas , to make certain he had not been overheard .  
`` The dragon speaks as he likes , '' Viserys said ... in the Common Tongue .  
He glanced over his shoulder at Aggo and Rakharo , riding behind them , and favored them with a mocking smile .  
`` How long must we linger amidst these ruins before Drogo gives me my army ?  
I 'm tired of eating horsemeat and I 'm sick of the stink of these savages . ''  
All the silk and heavy wools that Viserys had worn out of Pentos were stained by hard travel and rotted from sweat .  
Ser Jorah Mormont said , `` The Western Market will have food more to your taste , Your Grace .  
`` I was promised a crown , and I mean to have it .  
`` I pray that my sun-and-stars will not keep him waiting too long , '' she told Ser Jorah when her brother was out of earshot .  
The knight looked after Viserys doubtfully .  
`` He will go as soon as he has his ten thousand .  
`` Yes , Khaleesi , but ... the Dothraki look on these things differently than we do in the west .  
I have told him as much , as Illyrio told him , but your brother does not listen .  
Viserys thinks he sold you , and now he wants his price .  
Yet Khal Drogo would say he had you as a gift .  
You do not demand a gift , not of a khal You do not demand anything of a khal . ''  
Dany did not know why she was defending her brother , yet she was .  
`` Viserys says he could sweep the Seven Kingdoms with ten thousand Dothraki screamers . ''  
`` When I first went into exile , I looked at the Dothraki and saw half-naked barbarians , as wild as their horses .  
If you had asked me then , Princess , I should have told you that a thousand good knights would have no trouble putting to flight a hundred times as many Dothraki . ''  
`` But if I asked you now ? ''  
`` Your brother Rhaegar brought as many men to the Trident , '' Ser Jorah admitted , `` but of that number , no more than a tenth were knights .  
How well would boiled leather jerkins and mailed shirts protect them when the arrows fall like rain ? ''  
`` Mind you , Princess , if the lords of the Seven Kingdoms have the wit the gods gave a goose , it will never come to that .  
I doubt they could take even the weakest castle in the Seven Kingdoms , but if Robert Baratheon were fool enough to give them battle ... '' `` Is he ? ''  
`` Your khal would tell you that only a coward hides behind stone walls instead of facing his enemy with a blade in hand .  
His brother Stannis , Lord Tywin Lannister , Eddard Stark He spat .  
`` He took from me all I loved , for the sake of a few lice-ridden poachers and his precious honor , '' Ser Jorah said bitterly .  
The buildings you see were made by slaves brought here from lands they 've plundered , and they built each after the fashion of their own peoples . ''  
The bazaar had been full of running children and men shouting , but elsewhere she had seen only a few eunuchs going about their business .  
Khal Drogo finally called a halt near the Eastern Market where the caravans from Yi Ti and Asshai and the Shadow Lands came to trade , with the Vaes Dothrak beneath the Mother of Mountains looming overhead .  
Dany smiled as she recalled Magister Illyrio 's slave girl and her talk of a palace with two hundred rooms and doors of solid silver .  
As each rider swung down from his saddle , he unbelted his arakh and handed it to a waiting slave , and any other weapons he carried as well .  
In this place , the crones of the dosh khaleen had decreed , all Dothraki were one blood , one khalasar , one herd .  
Cohollo came to Dany as Irri and Jhiqui were helping her down off her silver .  
He was the oldest of Drogo 's three bloodriders , a squat bald man with a crooked nose and a mouth full of broken teeth , shattered by a mace twenty years before when he saved the young khalakka from sellswords who hoped to sell him to his father 's enemies .  
At first Dany had thought of them as a kind of Dothraki Kingsguard , sworn to protect their lord , but it went further than that .  
Jhiqui had taught her that a bloodrider was more than a guard ; they were the khal 's brothers , his shadows , his fiercest friends .  
The ancient traditions of the horselords demanded that when the khal died , his bloodriders died with him , to ride at his side in the night lands .  
If the khal died at the hands of some enemy , they lived only long enough to avenge him , and then followed him joyfully into the grave .  
In some khalasars , Jhiqui said , the bloodriders shared the khal 's wine , his tent , and even his wives , though never his horses .  
And while old Cohollo treated her kindly enough , the others frightened her ; Haggo , huge and silent , often glowered as if he had forgotten who she was , and Qotho had cruel eyes and quick hands that liked to hurt .  
He left bruises on Doreah 's soft white skin whenever he touched her , and sometimes made Irri sob in the night .  
Yet they were bound to Drogo for life and death , so Daenerys had no choice but to accept them .  
And sometimes she found herself wishing her father had been protected by such men .  
In the songs , the white knights of the Kingsguard were ever noble , valiant , and true , and yet King Aerys had been murdered by one of them , the handsome boy they now called the Kingslayer , and a second , Ser Barristan the Bold , had gone over to the Usurper .  
She wondered if all men were as false in the Seven Kingdoms .  
When her son sat the Iron Throne , she would see that he had bloodriders of his own to protect him against treachery in his Kingsguard .  
`` Khaleesi , `` Cohollo said to her , in Dothraki .  
`` Drogo , who is blood of my blood , commands me to tell you that he must ascend the Mother of Mountains this night , to sacrifice to the gods for his safe return . ''  
Only men were allowed to set foot on the Mother , Dany knew .  
`` Tell my sun-and-stars that I dream of him , and wait anxious for his return , '' she replied , thankful .  
Her pregnancy only seemed to have inflamed Drogo 's desire for her , and of late his embraces left her exhausted .  
Doreah led her to the hollow hill that had been prepared for her and her khal .  
Viserys was nicer to the Lysene girl than to her Dothraki handmaids , perhaps because Magister Illyrio had let him bed her back in Pentos .  
`` As you say , Khaleesi. `` She brought back a haunch of goat and a basket of fruits and vegetables .  
Jhiqui roasted the meat with sweetgrass and firepods , basting it with honey as it cooked , and there were melons and pomegranates and plums and some queer eastern fruit Dany did not know .  
While her handmaids prepared the meal , Dany laid out the clothing she 'd had made to her brother 's measure : a tunic and leggings of crisp white linen , leather sandals that laced up to the knee , a bronze medallion belt , a leather vest painted with fire-breathing dragons .  
The Dothraki would respect him more if he looked less a beggar , she hoped , and perhaps he would forgive her for shaming him that day in the grass .  
She was arranging the last of his gifts-a sandsilk cloak , green as grass , with a pale grey border that would bring out the silver in his hair-when Viserys arrived , dragging Doreah by the arm .  
He shoved the handmaid roughly to the carpet .  
`` I only wanted ... Doreah , what did you say ? ''  
I went to him , as you bid , and told him you commanded him to join you for supper . ''  
The Lysene girl quailed , but Dany calmed her with a touch .  
Sweet brother , please , forgive her , the girl misspoke herself , I told her to ask you to sup with me , if it pleases Your Grace . ''  
She took him by the hand and drew him across the room .  
I had it made for you . ''  
Do you presume to dress me now ? ''  
`` Please ... you 'll be cooler and more comfortable , and I thought ... maybe if you dressed like them , the Dothraki Dany did not know how to say it without waking his dragon .  
`` You have no right to a braid , you have won no victories yet . ''  
Fury shone from his lilac eyes , yet he dared not strike her , not with her handmaids watching and the warriors of her khas outside .  
`` I had Doreah sew it specially for you , '' she told him , wounded .  
He grabbed her arm .  
Do you think that big belly will protect you if you wake the dragon ? ''  
His fingers dug into her arm painfully and for an instant Dany felt like a child again , quailing in the face of his rage .  
She reached out with her other hand and grabbed the first thing she touched , the belt she 'd hoped to give him , a heavy chain of ornate bronze medallions .  
She swung it with all her strength .  
Blood ran down his cheek where the edge of one of the medallions had sliced it open .  
Leave me now , before I summon my khas to drag you out .  
And pray that Khal Drogo does not hear of this , or he will cut open your belly and feed you your own entrails . ''  
He walked off , holding his torn face , leaving her gifts behind him .  
After a moment she added , `` Please , bring me one of the dragon 's eggs . ''  
Irri fetched the egg with the deep green shell , bronze flecks shining amid its scales as she turned it in her small hands .  
Dany curled up on her side , pulling the sandsilk cloak across her and cradling the egg in the hollow between her swollen belly and small , tender breasts .  
They were so beautiful , and sometimes just being close to them made her feel stronger , braver , as if somehow she were drawing strength from the stone dragons locked inside .  
She was lying there , holding the egg , when she felt the child move within her ... as if he were reaching out , brother to brother , blood to blood .  
I know it .  
I know it . ''  
Bran could feel the flakes on his face , melting as they touched his skin like the gentlest of rains .  
Bran nodded , trying not to let his fear show .  
He had not been outside Winterfell since his fall , but he was determined to ride out as proud as any knight .  
Robb put his heels into his big grey-and-white gelding , and the horse walked under the portcullis .  
He touched her neck lightly , and the small chestnut filly started forward .  
Bran had named her Dancer .  
She was two years old , and Joseth said she was smarter than any horse had a right to be .  
At first Joseth or Hodor would lead her , while Bran sat strapped to her back in the oversize saddle the Imp had drawn up for him , but for the past fortnight he had been riding her on his own , trotting her round and round , and growing bolder with every circuit .  
Summer and Grey Wind came loping beside them , sniffing at the wind .  
Close behind came Theon Greyjoy , with his longbow and a quiver of broadheads ; he had a mind to take a deer , he had told them .  
He was followed by four guardsmen in mailed shirts and coifs , and Joseth , a stick-thin stableman whom Robb had named master of horse while Hullen was away .  
Bran would have liked it better if he and Robb had gone off alone , just the two of them , but Hal Mollen would not hear of it , and Maester Luwin backed him .  
If Bran fell off his horse or injured himself , the maester was determined to be with him .  
When the snow fell and the ice winds howled down out of the north , Old Nan said , farmers left their frozen fields and distant holdfasts , loaded up their wagons , and then the winter town came alive .  
Bran had never seen it happen , but Maester Luwin said the day was looming closer .  
A few villagers eyed the direwolves anxiously as the riders went past , and one man dropped the wood he was carrying as he shrank away in fear , but most of the townfolk had grown used to the sight .  
They bent the knee when they saw the boys , and Robb greeted each of them with a lordly nod .  
With his legs unable to grip , the swaying motion of the horse made Bran feel unsteady at first , but the huge saddle with its thick horn and high back cradled him comfortingly , and the straps around his chest and thighs would not allow him to fall .  
`` She squirms like a weasel in bed , but say a word to her on the street , and she blushes pink as a maid .  
Did I ever tell you about the night that she and Bessa- '' `` Not where my brother can hear , Theon , '' Robb warned him with a glance at Bran .  
Bran looked away and pretended not to have heard , but he could feel Greyjoy 's eyes on him .  
He smiled a lot , as if the world were a secret joke that only he was clever enough to understand .  
Robb seemed to admire Theon and enjoy his company , but Bran had never warmed to his father 's ward .  
He sent his gelding into a trot .  
Bran snapped the reins sharply , and Dancer picked up her pace .  
Bran 's cloak billowed out , rippling in the wind , and the snow seemed to rush at his face .  
Robb was well ahead , glancing back over his shoulder from time to time to make sure Bran and the others were following .  
Smooth as silk , Dancer slid into a gallop .  
By the time he caught Robb on the edge of the wolfswood , two miles beyond the winter town , they had left the others well behind .  
`` I 'd race you , but I fear you 'd win . ''  
His auburn hair had grown shaggy and unkempt , and a reddish stubble covered his jaw , making him look older than his fifteen years .  
`` Sometimes I think they know things ... sense things ... '' Robb sighed .  
`` I never know how much to tell you , Bran .  
I wish you were older . ''  
`` Eight is n't so much younger than fifteen , and I 'm the heir to Winterfell , after you . ''  
`` Bran , I need to tell you something .  
Maester Luwin woke me . ''  
Dark wings , dark words , Old Nan always said , and of late the messenger ravens had been proving the truth of the proverb .  
When Robb wrote to the Lord Commander of the Night 's Watch , the bird that came back brought word that Uncle Benjen was still missing .  
She did not say when she meant to return , only that she had taken the Imp as prisoner .  
Bran had sort of liked the little man , yet the name Lannister sent cold fingers creeping up his spine .  
There was something about the Lannisters , something he ought to remember , but when he tried to think what , he felt dizzy and his stomach clenched hard as a stone .  
Bran heard talk of Moat Cailin , the ancient stronghold the First Men had built at the top of the Neck .  
No one ever told him what was happening , yet he knew it was not good .  
Robb lifted his face to the snow , and the flakes melted on his cheeks .  
Jory had been captain of the household guard at Winterfell since before Bran was born .  
He remembered all the times Jory had chased him over the roofs .  
He could picture him striding across the yard in mail and plate , or sitting at his accustomed place on the bench in the Great Hall , joking as he ate .  
Robb shook his head numbly , the pain plain in his eyes .  
`` I do n't know , and ... Bran , that 's not the worst of it .  
Alyn says his leg was shattered , and ... Maester Pycelle has given him the milk of the poppy , but they are n't sure when ... when he ... '' The sound of hoofbeats made him glance down the road , to where Theon and the others were coming up .  
He laid his hand on the pommel of his sword then , and went on in the solemn voice of Robb the Lord .  
`` Bran , I promise you , whatever might happen , I will not let this be forgotten . ''  
Something in his tone made Bran even more fearful .  
he asked as Theon Greyjoy reined in beside them .  
`` Theon thinks I should call the banners , '' Robb said .  
Robb took his hand .  
When our lord father took his leave of us , he told me to be strong for you and for Rickon .  
`` I wish Mother was back , '' he said miserably .  
`` Does Maester Luwin say to call the banners too ? ''  
The joy Bran had felt at the ride was gone , melted away like the snowflakes on his face .  
Not so long ago , the thought of Robb calling the banners and riding off to war would have filled him with excitement , but now he felt only dread .  
Maester Luwin had warned him to keep the ride short , for fear of saddle sores , but Bran would not admit to weakness in front of his brother .  
Bran kept Dancer to a walk , holding the reins lightly and looking all around him as they went .  
He knew this wood , but he had been so long confined to Winterfell that he felt as though he were seeing it for the first time .  
Theon and the others fell farther and farther behind , until Bran could no longer hear their voices .  
It grew louder until they reached the stream .  
Tears stung his eyes .  
Bran shook his head .  
`` Jory brought us here once , to fish for trout .  
Will we ever see Jon again ? ''  
`` We saw Uncle Benjen when the king came to visit , '' Robb pointed out .  
Robb dismounted and led his gelding across the ford .  
He tied his horse to a tree on the far side , and waded back across for Bran and Dancer .  
The current foamed around rock and root , and Bran could feel the spray on his face as Robb led him over .  
It made him smile .  
They were on the far side when they heard the howl , a long rising wail that moved through the trees like a cold wind .  
Bran raised his head to listen .  
Robb spurred his gelding and vanished into the trees .  
Once he was gone , the woods seemed to close in around Bran .  
Where it touched the ground it melted , but all about him rock and root and branch wore a thin blanket of white .  
As he waited , he was conscious of how uncomfortable he felt .  
He could not feel his legs , hanging useless in the stirrups , but the strap around his chest was tight and chafing , and the melting snow had soaked through his gloves to chill his hands .  
He wondered what was keeping Theon and Maester Luwin and Joseth and the rest .  
When he heard the rustle of leaves , Bran used the reins to make Dancer turn , expecting to see his friends , but the ragged men who stepped out onto the bank of the stream were strangers .  
One look , and Bran knew they were neither foresters nor farmers .  
Bran did not like the way the strangers were looking at him .  
He counted four , but when he turned his head , he saw two others behind him .  
Bran watched him anxiously .  
Suddenly Bran remembered the oathbreaker his father had beheaded , the day they had found the wolf pups ; that man had worn black as well , and Father said he had been a deserter from the Night 's Watch .  
No man is more dangerous , he remembered Lord Eddard saying .  
`` Stiv , look how he 's strapped on . ''  
`` Might be it 's the truth he 's telling . ''  
`` I 'm Brandon Stark of Winterfell , and you better let go of my horse , or I 'll see you all dead . ''  
He turned back to Bran and slashed at the strap around his thigh .  
Hali , they called her .  
`` You mean to fight us , boy ? ''  
We 'll thank you kindly for the mount and for the venison , and you and your brother can be on your way . ''  
The undergrowth parted , low-hanging branches giving up their accumulation of snow , and Grey Wind and Summer emerged from the green .  
Still half-grown , they were as large as any wolf he had ever seen , but the differences were easy to spot , if you knew what to look for .  
Maester Luwin and Farlen the kennelmaster had taught him .  
The man with the gaunt stubbly face made a grab for the reins , and for half a second he had them ... and then Grey Wind was on him , bearing him down .  
He fell back into the stream with a splash and a shout , flailing wildly with his knife as his head went under .  
Robb and Osha matched blows in midstream .  
Her long spear was a steel-headed serpent , flashing out at his chest , once , twice , three times , but Robb parried every thrust with his longsword , turning the point aside .  
Robb charged , riding her down .  
When Hali stumbled and fell , he came at her again , slamming her backward , teeth tearing at her belly .  
As he went scrambling up the far side of the bank , Grey Wind emerged from the stream , dripping wet .  
He shook the water off and bounded after the running man , hamstringing him with a single snap of his teeth , and going for the throat as the screaming man slid back down toward the water .  
He slashed at Bran 's chest strap , grabbed his arm , and yanked .  
He could not feel the cold of the water , but he felt the steel when Stiv pressed his dagger to his throat .  
Robb reined his horse in , breathing hard .  
Summer was savaging Hali , pulling glistening blue snakes from her belly .  
The grey stubbly man and the one with the axe lay unmoving , but Osha was on her knees , crawling toward her fallen spear .  
Summer stayed where he was , his eyes on Bran and the man beside him .  
Osha used the butt end of her spear to lever herself back to her feet .  
Blood leaked from a wound on the upper arm where Robb had cut her .  
Stiv was as scared as he was , he realized .  
He raised his voice .  
His hand trembled ; Bran felt a trickle of blood where the knife pressed against his neck .  
The stench of the man filled his nose ; he smelled of fear .  
`` I am Robb Stark , the heir to Winterfell . ''  
`` You want him alive , you do what I say .  
`` You do it .  
If Robb did as they asked , Stiv would kill them both anyway , once the direwolves were dead .  
The bald man took hold of his hair with his free hand and twisted it cruelly , till Bran sobbed in pain .  
`` You shut your mouth , cripple , you hear me ? ''  
`` You hear me ? ''  
Bran watched his life go swirling off in the water .  
The guardsmen had a strange , pale look to their faces as they took in the scene of slaughter .  
They eyed the wolves uncertainly , and when Summer returned to Hali 's corpse to feed , Joseth dropped his knife and scrambled for the bush , heaving .  
Even Maester Luwin seemed shocked as he stepped from behind a tree , but only for an instant .  
Then he shook his head and waded across the stream to Bran 's side .  
`` He cut my leg , '' Bran said , `` but I could n't feel it . ''  
As the maester knelt to examine the wound , Bran turned his head .  
`` Jon always said you were an ass , Greyjoy , '' Robb said loudly .  
`` I ought to chain you up in the yard and let Bran take a few practice shots at you. `` `` You should be thanking me for saving your brother 's life . ''  
What if you had made his hand jump , or hit Bran instead ?  
Did you ever think of that , Greyjoy ? ''  
`` Only first we waited for Maester Luwin and his ass , begging your pardons , and then , well , as it were He glanced over at Theon and quickly looked away , abashed .  
`` How was I to know that you 'd leave the boy alone ? ''  
Robb turned his head to look at Theon once more .  
Bran had never seen him so angry , yet he said nothing .  
Finally he knelt beside Maester Luwin .  
Robb glanced over at where Stiv lay sprawled in the stream , his ragged black cloak moving fitfully as the rushing waters tugged at it .  
`` Shall we bury them , m'lord ? ''  
She was a head taller than he was , but she dropped to her knees at his approach .  
`` Give me my life , m'lord of Stark , and I am yours . ''  
Stiv and Wallen flew down off the Wall , not me .  
`` She said they should keep me alive so they could take me to Mance Rayder . ''  
Robb asked her .  
`` Osha , as it please the lord , '' she muttered sourly .  
She 'll come back to Winterfell with us ... and live or die by the truths she gives us . ''  
Tyrion Lannister was starved , but he refused to let this brute see him cringe .  
Mord jerked it away , grinning .  
He held the plate out at arm 's length , over the edge where the cell ended and the sky began .  
`` Come to think on it , I 'm not hungry after all , '' he declared , retreating to the corner of his cell .  
The wind took the plate , flipping it over as it fell .  
`` I hope you die of a bloody flux . ''  
For that , Mord gave him a kick , driving a steel-toed boot hard into Tyrion 's ribs on the way out .  
`` I take it back ! ''  
he gasped as he doubled over on the straw .  
`` I 'll kill you myself , I swear it ! ''  
For a small man , he had been cursed with a dangerously big mouth , he reflected as he crawled back to his corner of what the Arryns laughably called their dungeon .  
He huddled beneath the thin blanket that was his only bedding , staring out at a blaze of empty blue sky and distant mountains that seemed to go on forever , wishing he still had the shadowskin cloak he 'd won from Marillion at dice , after the singer had stolen it off the body of that brigand chief .  
Mord had taken it the moment he laid eyes on it .  
He had plenty of fresh air and sunshine , and the moon and stars by night , but Tyrion would have traded it all in an instant for the dankest , gloomiest pit in the bowels of the Casterly Rock .  
The Arryns kept the only dungeon in the realm where the prisoners were welcome to escape at will .  
That first day , after girding up his courage for hours , Tyrion had lain flat on his stomach and squirmed to the edge , to poke out his head and look down .  
If he craned his neck out as far as it could go , he could see other cells to his right and left and above him .  
It was cold in the cell , the wind screamed night and day , and worst of all , the floor sloped .  
He was afraid to close his eyes , afraid that he might roll over in his steep and wake in sudden terror as he went sliding off the edge .  
At first Tyrion wondered who he 'd been , and what had become of him ; later , he decided that he would rather not know .  
If only he had shut his mouth ... The wretched boy had started it , looking down on him from a throne of carved weirwood beneath the moon-and-falcon banners of House Arryn .  
Tyrion Lannister had been looked down on all his life , but seldom by rheumy-eyed six-year-olds who needed to stuff fat cushions under their cheeks to lift them to the height of a man .  
`` This is Tyrion the Imp , of House Lannister , who murdered your father . ''  
She raised her voice so it carried down the length of High Hall of the Eyrie , ringing off the milk-white walls and the slender pillars , so every man could hear it .  
`` Oh , did I kill him too ? ''  
He could see that now ; seven hells , he had seen it then .  
Bronn had carried him the rest of the way , and the humiliation poured oil on the flames of his anger .  
`` I wonder when I found the time to do all this slaying and murdering . ''  
This is the Eyrie , and these are knights of the Vale you see around you , true men who loved Jon Arryn well .  
`` Lady Arryn , should any harm come to me , my brother Jaime will be pleased to see that they do . ''  
Even as he spat out the words , Tyrion knew they were folly .  
`` Can you fly , my lord of Lannister ? ''  
Little Lord Robert hopped to his feet at that , so upset he dropped his doll .  
Tell him , Mother , tell him he ca n't hurt us here . ''  
The hell of it was , she was no doubt right .  
Having seen what it took to get here , Tyrion could well imagine how it would be for a knight trying to fight his way up in armor , while stones and arrows poured down from above and enemies contested with him for every step .  
Nightmare did not begin to describe it .  
Mother , I want to see him fly . ''  
The gods only know what might have happened then were it not for Catelyn Stark .  
I will not have him harmed . ''  
Lysa Arryn glanced at her sister coolly for a moment , then rose and swept down on Tyrion , her long skirts trailing after her .  
For an instant he feared she would strike him , but instead she commanded them to release him .  
Her men shoved him to the floor , his legs went out from under him , and Tyrion fell .  
He must have made quite a sight as he struggled to his knees , only to feel his right leg spasm , sending him sprawling once more .  
A rest in one of our sky cells will do him much good . ''  
And so he did , for all the good it did him .  
They dare not kill him out of hand ; he was still a Lannister of Casterly Rock , and if they shed his blood , it would mean war .  
Or so he had told himself .  
Perhaps his captors only meant to let him rot here , but he feared he did not have the strength to rot for long .  
He was growing weaker every day , and it was only a matter of time until Mord 's kicks and blows did him serious harm , provided the gaoler did not starve him to death first .  
He wondered what was happening beyond the walls ( such as they were ) of his cell .  
Jaime might be leading a host through the Mountains of the Moon even now ... unless he was riding north against Winterfell instead .  
Did anyone outside the Vale even suspect where Catelyn Stark had taken him ?  
He wondered what Cersei would do when she heard .  
The king could order him freed , but would Robert listen to his queen or his Hand ?  
Tyrion had no illusions about the king 's love for his sister .  
If Cersei kept her wits about her , she would insist the king sit in judgment of Tyrion himself .  
Whatever murders they might lay at his door , the Starks had no proof of anything so far as he could see .  
Let them make their case before the Iron Throne and the lords of the land .  
If only Cersei were clever enough to see that ... Tyrion Lannister sighed .  
He wondered which of them had sent the footpad to silence the Stark boy , and whether they had truly conspired at the death of Lord Arryn .  
His chances of overpowering Mord were small to none , and no one was about to smuggle him a six-hundred-foot-long rope , so he would have to talk himself free .  
Mord , I want you ! ''  
He had to keep it up a good ten minutes before he heard footsteps .  
Never show them You 're afraid , Tyrion reminded himself .  
He swung the strap backhand , lazily , but the leather caught Tyrion high on the arm .  
The force of it staggered him , and the pain made him grit his teeth .  
It caught Tyrion in the ribs and dropped him to his knees , wimpering .  
`` That 's what they say , Mord- '' Mord grunted .  
The pain was so bad he did not remember falling , but when he opened his eyes again he was on the floor of his cell .  
He groped for purchase , to push himself up , and his fingers brushed against ... nothing .  
Tyrion snatched his hand back as fast as if it had been scalded , and tried his best to stop breathing .  
Mord held the strap between his fists and gave it a sharp pull .  
He wo n't push me over , Tyrion told himself desperately as he crawled away from the edge .  
Catelyn Stark wants me alive , he does n't dare kill me .  
He wiped the blood off his lips with the back of his hand , grinned , and said , `` That was a stiff one , Mord . ''  
`` They relieved me of my purse when they captured me , but the gold is still mine .  
Catelyn Stark might take a man prisoner , but she 'd never stoop to rob him .  
Tyrion caught the leather in his hand and held it prisoned .  
`` You heard me , my lord .  
The inspiration came to Tyrion Lannister suddenly .  
tell her that I wish to confess my crimes . ''  
Mord raised his arm and Tyrion braced himself for another blow , but the turnkey hesitated .  
He wanted that gold , yet he feared a trick ; he had the look of a man who had often been tricked .  
Some illiterates held writing in disdain ; others seemed to have a superstitious reverence for the written word , as if it were some sort of magic .  
Mord fingered his strap thoughtfully , but in the end , he relented and went to fetch paper and ink .  
When the letter was written , the gaoler frowned at it suspiciously .  
He was shivering in his sleep when they came for him , late that night .  
Mord opened the door but kept his silence .  
Ser Vardis Egen woke Tyrion with the point of his boot .  
Tyrion rubbed the sleep from his eyes and put on a grimace he scarcely felt .  
`` No doubt she does , but what makes you think I wish to see her ? ''  
Tyrion remembered him well from the years he had spent at King 's Landing as the captain of the Hand 's household guard .  
On your feet , or I 'll have you carried . ''  
He gave Tyrion a glare that promised future retribution , yet he went for the cloak .  
When he draped it around his prisoner 's neck , Tyrion smiled .  
I shall think of you whenever I wear it . ''  
Since she did not look the sort to join the Night 's Watch , Tyrion could only imagine that she had decided mourning clothes were appropriate garb for a confession .  
Lady Arryn had summoned her knights and retainers to hear his confession , as he had hoped .  
Tyrion noted Ser Lyn Corbray , slender as a sword , Lord Eon Hunter with his gouty legs , the widowed Lady Waynwood surrounded by her sons .  
Among the lords of the Vale were several of his companions from the high road ; Ser Rodrik Cassel , pale from half-healed wounds , stood with Ser Willis Wode beside him .  
Tyrion smiled ; whatever happened here tonight , he did not wish it to happen in secret , and there was no one like a singer for spreading a story near and far .  
Tyrion gave him a long look , wondering ... Catelyn Stark spoke first .  
`` You wish to confess your crimes , we are told . ''  
Lady Lysa paid her no mind .  
I am a vile little man , I confess it .  
`` I have not always treated my servants with kindness .  
I have even cheated , I blush to admit .  
`` Why , confessing my crimes , my lady- '' Catelyn Stark took a step forward .  
`` You are accused of sending a hired knife to slay my son Bran in his bed , and of conspiring to murder Lord Jon Arryn , the Hand of the King . ''  
`` Those crimes I can not confess , I fear .  
You have had your little jape , Imp .  
I trust you enjoyed it .  
Ser Vardis , take him back to the dungeon ... but this time find him a smaller cell , with a floor more sharply sloped . ''  
You accuse me of crimes , I deny them , so you throw me into an open cell to freeze and starve . ''  
He lifted his head , to give them all a good look at the bruises Mord had left on his face .  
I stand accused , you say .  
Let me speak , and let my truth or falsehood be judged openly , in the sight of gods and men . ''  
He had her , Tyrion knew .  
Guardsmen in sky-blue cloaks had started toward Tyrion , but Ser Vardis bid them halt and looked to Lady Lysa .  
We keep no headsman in the Eyrie , my lord of Lannister .  
`` Lysa , I think this unwise , '' Catelyn Stark said as the black wind swirled around the hall .  
`` You want a trial , my lord of Lannister .  
My son will listen to whatever you care to say , and you shall hear his judgment .  
She looked so pleased with herself , Tyrion thought , and small wonder .  
How could a trial threaten her , when her weakling son was the lord judge ?  
Mother , I want to see him fly !  
`` I thank you , my good lady , but I see no need to trouble Lord Robert , '' Tyrion said politely .  
Lord Nestor Royce snorted , Ser Willis chuckled , Ser Lyn Corbray guffawed , and others threw back their heads and howled until tears ran down their faces .  
Even the wind seemed to whistle with derision as it came skirling through the Moon Door .  
He had caught her off balance .  
`` For the love I bore your lord husband , let me avenge his death . ''  
`` My father served Lord Jon faithfully as High Steward of the Vale , '' Ser Albar Royce boomed .  
`` Let me serve his son in this . ''  
`` I thank you , my lords , as I know my son would thank you if he were among us .  
`` And now I demand a champion , such as you have chosen for yourself .  
My brother Jaime will gladly take my part , I know . ''  
`` Name your champion , Imp ... if you think you can find a man to die for you . ''  
For a long moment he wondered if it had all been a colossal blunder .  
In the dream his friends rode with him , as they had in life .  
Proud Martyn Cassel , Jory 's father ; faithful Theo Wull ; Ethan Glover , who had been Brandon 's squire ; Ser Mark Ryswell , soft of speech and gentle of heart ; the crannogman , Howland Reed ; Lord Dustin on his great red stallion .  
Ned had known their faces as well as he knew his own once , but the years leech at a man 's memories , even those he has vowed never to forget .  
Across his white-enameled helm , the black bat of his House spread its wings .  
`` Woe to the Usurper if we had been , '' said Ser Oswell .  
`` When King 's Landing fell , Ser Jaime slew your king with a golden sword , and I wondered where you were . ''  
I thought you might have sailed with him . ''  
He donned his helm .  
He unsheathed Dawn and held it with both hands .  
As they came together in a rush of steel and shadow , he could hear Lyanna screaming .  
`` Lya , I promise `` Lord Eddard , '' a man echoed from the dark .  
Groaning , Eddard Stark opened his eyes .  
He could not face Robert now .  
The steward busied himself lighting a bedside candle .  
`` Tell him I 'm too weak to come to him .  
If he wishes to speak with me , I should be pleased to receive him here .  
I hope you wake him from a sound sleep .  
And summon ... '' He was about to say Jory when he remembered .  
Alyn stepped into the bedchamber a few moments after the steward had taken his leave .  
`` Poole tells me it has been six days , '' Ned said .  
`` The talk is he 's ridden back to Casterly Rock to join his father .  
I have put on extra guards , if it please you . ''  
Sansa prays quietly , but Arya ... '' He hesitated .  
`` She has not said a word since they brought you back .  
It was said that Rhaegar had named that place the tower of joy , but for Ned it was a bitter memory .  
He did not think it omened well that he should dream that dream again after so many years .  
Ned pushed himself up higher , wincing as his leg trembled with pain .  
He had not expected Cersei to come .  
It did not bode well that she had .  
He wore a black velvet doublet with the crowned stag of Baratheon worked upon the breast in golden thread , and a golden mantle with a cloak of black and gold squares .  
`` A man in your place should count himself fortunate that his head is still on his shoulders , '' the queen declared .  
He brought Ned a cup of wine .  
`` I take it you know what Catelyn has done ? ''  
All she did she did at my command . ''  
`` You asked him a question and he answered it . ''  
Cersei subsided , cold with anger , and Robert turned back to Ned .  
Is this how you keep my peace , Ned ?  
`` Tregar died this morning , of the blow Lord Stark gave him . ''  
`` Catelyn had good reason for taking the Imp- '' `` I said , I will not have it !  
You will command her to release the dwarf at once , and you will make your peace with Jaime . ''  
`` Three of my men were butchered before my eyes , because Jaime Lannister wished to chasten me .  
His men attacked Jaime and his guards , even as his wife attacked Tyrion on the kingsroad . ''  
`` You know me better than that , Robert , '' Ned said .  
`` Ask Lord Baelish if you doubt me .  
`` He claims he rode off to bring the gold cloaks before the fighting began , but he admits you were returning from some whorehouse . ''  
Damn your eyes , Robert , I went there to have a look at your daughter !  
She looks like that first girl you fathered , when we were boys together in the Vale . ''  
He watched the queen as he spoke ; her face was a mask , still and pale , betraying nothing .  
I thought she had more sense . ''  
`` She can not be more than fifteen , and a whore , and you thought she had sense ? ''  
His leg was beginning to pain him sorely .  
`` Her Grace will have no liking for anything I have to say , '' Ned replied .  
`` I am told the Kingslayer has fled the city .  
Give me leave to bring him back to justice . ''  
Jaime slew three of your men , and you five of his .  
`` If so , I am pleased that I am no longer your Hand . ''  
`` If any man had dared speak to a Targaryen as he has spoken to you- '' `` Do you take me for Aerys ? ''  
This man dishonors you with every breath he takes , and yet you stand there meekly , asking if his leg pains him and would he like some wine . ''  
`` How many times must I tell you to hold your tongue , woman ? ''  
She stumbled against the table and fell hard , yet Cersei Lannister did not cry out .  
The knight helped Cersei to her feet and led her out without a word .  
Robert reached for the flagon and refilled his cup .  
`` You see what she does to me , Ned . ''  
The rage was gone from him now ; in his eyes Ned saw something sad and scared .  
He stared down at his hands , as if he did not quite know what they were .  
How do you fight someone if you ca n't hit them ? ''  
`` Rhaegar ... Rhaegar won , damn him .  
I killed him , Ned , I drove the spike right through that black armor into his black heart , and he died at my feet .  
He has Lyanna now , and I have her . ''  
Whatever you have to say can wait until I return . ''  
You commanded me to return to Winterfell , remember ? ''  
He pulled the heavy silver hand clasp from a pocket in the lining of his cloak and tossed it on the bed .  
He was being given no choice , it seemed .  
`` Why would you want me as your Hand , if you refuse to listen to my counsel ? ''  
And if you ever throw it in my face again , I swear to you , I 'll pin the damned thing on Jaime Lannister . ''  
Catelyn Stark watched the light spread , her hands resting on the delicate carved stone of the balustrade outside her window .  
Pale white mists rose off Alyssa 's Tears , where the ghost waters plunged over the shoulder of the mountain to begin their long tumble down the face of the Giant 's Lance .  
Alyssa Arryn had seen her husband , her brothers , and all her children slain , and yet in life she had never shed a tear .  
So in death , the gods had decreed that she would know no rest until her weeping watered the black earth of the Vale , where the men she had loved were buried .  
Alyssa had been dead six thousand years now , and still no drop of the torrent had ever reached the valley floor far below .  
Catelyn wondered how large a waterfall her own tears would make when she died .  
`` Your brother writes that he has sent riders to the Rock , demanding that Lord Tywin proclaim his intent , but he has had no answer .  
He vows to you that he will yield no foot of Tully land without first watering it with Lannister blood . ''  
Its beauty did little to lighten her mood ; it seemed cruel for a day to dawn so fair and end so foul as this one promised to .  
They had grown in white as snow and bristly as a thornbush while he was recovering from his wounds ; he looked almost himself again .  
`` Your lady sister thought it better to let you sleep , Maester Colemon told me . ''  
Whatever happens this morning , Ser Rodrik , it is past time we took our leave .  
If you are strong enough to travel , I shall ask Lysa for an escort to see us to Gulltown .  
Ser Rodrik looked a shade green , yet he managed not to shudder .  
The old knight waited outside her door as Catelyn summoned the servants Lysa had given her .  
If she spoke to her sister before the duel , perhaps she could change her mind , she thought as they dressed her .  
The shy girl she had known at Riverrun had grown into a woman who was by turns proud , fearful , cruel , dreamy , reckless , timid , stubborn , vain , and , above all , inconstant .  
When that vile turnkey of hers had come crawling to tell them that Tyrion Lannister wished to confess , Catelyn had urged Lysa to have the dwarf brought to them privately , but no , nothing would do but that her sister must make a show of him before half the Vale .  
At the doors to Lysa 's apartments , they met her uncle storming out .  
`` I 'd tell you to slap some sense into your sister , if I thought it would do any good , but you 'd only bruise your hand . ''  
`` I had to hear it from Maester Colemon .  
I asked your sister for leave to take a thousand seasoned men and ride for Riverrun with all haste .  
Do you know what she told me ?  
The Vale can not spare a thousand swords , nor even one , Uncle , she said .  
`` Well , I told her she could bloody well find herself a new Knight of the Gate .  
Black fish or no , I am still a Tully .  
It 's the long way home , but I 'm more like to get there .  
Catelyn exchanged a look with Ser Rodrik .  
The builders had intended it as a godswood , but the Eyrie rested on the hard stone of the mountain , and no matter how much soil was hauled up from the Vale , they could not get a weirwood to take root here .  
Lysa , freshly scrubbed and garbed in cream velvet with a rope of sapphires and moonstones around her milk-white neck , was holding court on the terrace overlooking the scene of the combat , surrounded by her knights , retainers , and lords high and low .  
Most of them still hoped to wed her , bed her , and rule the Vale of Arryn by her side .  
From what Catelyn had seen during her stay at the Eyrie , it was a vain hope .  
A fool 's festival , Brynden had called it , and small wonder .  
Across the terrace , Lysa laughed gaily at some jest of Lord Hunter 's , and nibbled a blackberry from the point of Ser Lyn Corbray 's dagger .  
When Lysa espied Catelyn , she welcomed her with a sisterly embrace and a moist kiss on the cheek .  
Catelyn spoke more loudly than she 'd intended .  
Alive , the Imp has value .  
She had seen Bronn fight on the high road ; it was no accident that he had survived the journey while other men had died .  
He moved like a panther , and that ugly sword of his seemed a part of his arm .  
Useful enough in a battle , with thousands of their fellows around them , but stand them up alone and the manhood leaks right out of them . ''  
`` Say you have the truth of it , then , '' Catelyn said with a courtesy that made her mouth ache .  
Do you imagine that Jaime will care a fig that we gave his brother a trial before we flung him off a mountain ? ''  
`` When the Kingslayer receives the Imp 's head , it will be a warning to him , '' Lysa gave an impatient shake of her waist-long auburn hair .  
`` Lord Robert wants to see him fly , '' she said , as if that settled the matter .  
`` Lady Lysa had no honorable way to deny him , even if she 'd wished to , '' Lord Hunter intoned ponderously .  
Ignoring them all , Catelyn turned all her force on her sister .  
`` I remind you , Tyrion Lannister is my prisoner . ''  
`` And I remind you , the dwarf murdered my lord husband ! ''  
`` He poisoned the Hand of the King and left my sweet baby fatherless , and now I mean to see him pay ! ''  
Whirling , her skirts swinging around her , Lysa stalked across the terrace .  
`` Do you think he did ? ''  
Ser Rodrik asked her quietly when they were alone again .  
The Imp still denies it , and most fiercely ... '' `` I believe the Lannisters murdered Lord Arryn , '' Catelyn replied , `` but whether it was Tyrion , or Ser Jaime , or the queen , or all of them together , I could not begin to say . ''  
Lysa had named Cersei in the letter she had sent to Winterfell , but now she seemed certain that Tyrion was the killer ... perhaps because the dwarf was here , while the queen was safe behind the walls of the Red Keep , hundreds of leagues to the south .  
Catelyn almost wished she had burned her sister 's letter before reading it .  
The Kingslayer , now I have no great liking for the man , but he 's not the sort .  
`` How else could they make it look a natural death ? ''  
Behind her , Lord Robert shrieked with delight as one of the puppet knights sliced the other in half , spilling a flood of red sawdust onto the terrace .  
She turned to behold Maester Colemon , a cup of wine in his hand .  
`` He was planning to send the boy to Dragonstone for fostering , you know ... oh , but I 'm speaking out of turn . ''  
`` I fear I 've had too much of Lord Hunter 's excellent wine .  
`` It was Casterly Rock , not Dragonstone , and those arrangements were made after the Hand 's death , without my sister 's consent . ''  
The maester 's head jerked so vigorously at the end of his absurdly long neck that he looked half a puppet himself .  
The Eyrie 's plump septon escorted him to the statue in the center of the garden , a weeping woman carved in veined white marble , no doubt meant to be Alyssa .  
`` Mother , can I make him fly ?  
I want to see him fly . ''  
Bronn was so lightly armored he looked almost naked beside the knight .  
Yet Catelyn noted that the sellsword stood half a hand taller than his foe , with a longer reach ... and Bronn was fifteen years younger , if she was any judge .  
He lifted it high above his head , and the light shattered .  
Tyrion leaned over and whispered something in Bronn 's ear before the guardsmen led him away .  
When Lysa 's master-at-arms offered Bronn a similar shield , the sellsword spat and waved it away .  
Three days growth of coarse black beard covered his jaw and cheeks , but if he did not shave it was not for want of a razor ; the edge of his sword had the dangerous glimmer of steel that had been honed every day for hours , until it was too sharp to touch .  
`` I had that sword crafted for Jon in King 's Landing , '' Lysa told her guests proudly as they watched Ser Vardis try a practice cut .  
`` He wore it whenever he sat the Iron Throne in King Robert 's place .  
I thought it only fitting that our champion avenge Jon with his own blade . ''  
Ser Vardis faced the Lord of the Eyrie and lifted his sword in salute .  
It was to him that Bronn turned with a cursory salute .  
the boy screamed , his arms trembling as they clutched at his chair .  
He tried a slash , but Bronn jerked back , just out of reach , and the silver blade cut only air .  
Ser Vardis turned to follow , keeping his shield between them .  
Ser Vardis attacked , slashing , but Bronn leapt away from him , hopping lightly over a low , moss-covered stone .  
Ser Vardis tried a hack at his legs , but he did not have the reach .  
Catelyn looked to Ser Rodrik .  
`` He wants to make Ser Vardis chase him .  
And as she watched , the memory of another duel in another time came back to Catelyn Stark , as vivid as if it had been yesterday .  
When Brandon saw that Petyr wore only helm and breastplate and mail , he took off most of his armor .  
Petyr had begged her for a favor he might wear , but she had turned him away .  
Her lord father promised her to Brandon Stark , and so it was to him that she gave her token , a pale blue handscarf she had embroidered with the leaping trout of Riverrun .  
As she pressed it into his hand , she pleaded with him .  
`` He is only a foolish boy , but I have loved him like a brother .  
It would grieve me to see him die . ''  
Brandon was a man grown , and he drove Littlefinger all the way across the bailey and down the water stair , raining steel on him with every step , until the boy was staggering and bleeding from a dozen wounds .  
he called , more than once , but Petyr would only shake his head and fight on , grimly .  
He looked at her as he fell and murmured `` Cat '' as the bright blood came flowing out between his mailed fingers .  
She thought she had forgotten that .  
That was the last time she had seen his face ... until the day she was brought before him in King 's Landing .  
A fortnight passed before Littlefinger was strong enough to leave Riverrun , but her lord father forbade her to visit him in the tower where he lay abed .  
Lysa helped their maester nurse him ; she had been softer and shyer in those days .  
Edmure had called on him as well , but Petyr had sent him away .  
As soon as he was strong enough to be moved , Lord Hoster Tully sent Petyr Baelish away in a closed litter , to finish his healing on the Fingers , upon the windswept jut of rock where he 'd been born .  
He was quicker , Catelyn saw ; the knight 's silvered sword never came near to touching him , but his own ugly grey blade hacked a notch from Ser Vardis 's shoulder plate .  
The brief flurry of fighting ended as swiftly as it had begun when Bronn sidestepped and slid behind the statue of the weeping woman .  
Ser Vardis lunged at where he had been , striking a spark off the pate marble of Alyssa 's thigh .  
Ser Vardis blocked , but clumsily , and the sellsword 's blade flashed upward at his head .  
Ser Vardis took a half step back to brace himself , raised his shield .  
The sellsword stepped left again , away from the shield , and caught Ser Vardis across the stomach , the razor edge of his blade leaving a bright gash when it bit into the knight 's plate .  
Bronn slammed it aside and danced away .  
Staggered , he stepped backward , his head turning this way and that as he searched for his foe .  
Bronn brought his sword down with both hands , catching Ser Vardis in the elbow of his sword arm .  
This time Bronn stood his ground .  
Catelyn did not need to be told ; she had eyes , she could see the bright finger of blood running along the knight 's forearm , the wetness inside the elbow joint .  
Ser Vardis turned his side to his foe , trying to use his shield to block instead , but Bronn slid around him , quick as a cat .  
They could hear his labored breath , rattling through the air holes in his visor .  
Almost , almost , Bronn lost his feet ... he staggered back , tripped over a rock , and caught hold of the weeping woman to keep his balance .  
Throwing aside his shield , Ser Vardis lurched after him , using both hands to raise his sword .  
His right arm was blood from elbow to fingers now , yet his last desperate blow would have opened Bronn from neck to navel ... if the sellsword had stood to receive it .  
Bronn put his shoulder into the statue 's back .  
The weathered likeness of Alyssa Arryn tottered and fell with a great crash , and Ser Vardis Egen went down beneath her .  
Catelyn heard the knight groan as the sellsword lifted his blade with both hands and drove it down and in with all his weight behind it , under the arm and through the ribs .  
Bronn yanked off his halfhelm and let it fall to the grass .  
His lip was smashed and bloody where the shield had caught him , and his coal-black hair was soaked with sweat .  
No , Catelyn wanted to tell him , it 's only now beginning .  
`` I presume that House Arryn remembers its own words , '' the Imp said .  
`` As High as Honor. `` `` You promised I could make him fly , '' the Lord of the Eyrie screamed at his mother .  
She lifted her voice .  
It was another sort of death sentence , Catelyn realized .  
`` I believe we know the way . ''  
JON You are as hopeless as any boys I have ever trained , '' Ser Alliser Thorne announced when they had all assembled in the yard .  
`` Your hands were made for manure shovels , not for swords , and if it were up to me , the lot of you would be set to herding swine .  
To make room for them , I have decided to pass eight of you on to the Lord Commander to do with as he will . ''  
Pyp let fly a whoop and thrust his sword into the air .  
`` They will call you men of Night 's Watch now , but you are bigger fools than the Mummer 's Monkey here if you believe that .  
And with that , Ser Alliser Thorne took his leave of them .  
Halder smacked Toad on the butt with the flat of his sword and shouted , `` Toad , of the Night 's Watch ! ''  
Yelling that a black brother needed a horse , Pyp leapt onto Grenn 's shoulders , and they tumbled to the ground , rolling and punching and hooting .  
As they passed the wine from hand to hand , grinning like fools , Jon noticed Samwell Tarly standing by himself beneath a bare dead tree in the corner of the yard .  
Sam shook his head .  
His round face quivered as he forced a smile .  
`` You will be First Ranger someday , just as your uncle was . ''  
Before he could say more , Halder cried , `` Here , you planning to drink that all yourself ? ''  
While Grenn seized his arm , Pyp gave the skin a squeeze , and a thin stream of red squirted Jon in the face .  
Matthar and Jeren climbed the wall and began pelting them all with snowballs .  
By the time he wrenched free , with snow in his hair and wine stains on his surcoat , Samwell Tarly had gone .  
When Jon arrived at the common hall , the Lord Steward himself led him to the bench near the fire .  
`` Do you think they 'll keep us together ? ''  
Pyp wondered as they gorged themselves happily .  
`` I hope I 'm a ranger . ''  
Every man who wore the black walked the Wall , and every man was expected to take up steel in its defense , but the rangers were the true fighting heart of the Night 's Watch .  
Once , it was said , they had quarried immense blocks of ice from frozen lakes deep in the haunted forest , dragging them south on sledges so the Wall might be raised ever higher .  
Those days were centuries gone , however ; now , it was all they could do to ride the Wall from Eastwatch to the Shadow Tower , watching for cracks or signs of melt and making what repairs they could .  
He 's the best sword and the best rider among us , and his uncle was the First before he ... '' His voice trailed off awkwardly as he realized what he had almost said .  
He took his cloak from its hook near the door and shouldered his way out .  
`` Do you suppose he 's taken ill ? ''  
He remembered the day he had left Winterfell , all the bittersweet farewells ; Bran lying broken , Robb with snow in his hair , Arya raining kisses on him after he 'd given her Needle .  
`` Once we say our words , we 'll all have duties to attend to .  
Gods only know what they 'll be like , but you can bet Ser Alliser will send them against him , first chance he gets . ''  
A deep restlessness was on him as he went back to Hardin 's Tower for Ghost .  
Jon saddled his mare , mounted , and rode out from Castle Black , south across the moonlit night .  
Jon let him go .  
It stretched out before him , narrow and stony and pocked with weeds , a road of no particular promise , yet the sight of it filled Jon Snow with a vast longing .  
Winterfell was down that road , and beyond it Riverrun and King 's Landing and the Eyrie and so many other places ; Casterly Rock , the Isles of Faces , the red mountains of Dorne , the hundred islands of Braavos in the sea , the smoking ruins of old Valyria .  
Once he swore his vow , the Wall would be his home until he was old as Maester Aemon .  
He had come here freely , and he might leave freely ... until he said the words .  
He wondered who she had been , what she had looked like , why his father had left her .  
He wheeled his horse around and started for home .  
Ghost returned as he crested a rise and saw the distant glow of lamplight from the Lord Commander 's Tower .  
The direwolf s muzzle was red with blood as he trotted beside the horse .  
Jon found himself thinking of Samwell Tarly again on the ride back .  
By the time he reached the stables , he knew what he must do .  
Aged and frail , the maester shared his chambers with two of the younger stewards , who tended to his needs and helped him in his duties .  
The brothers joked that he had been given the two ugliest men in the Night 's Watch ; being blind , he was spared having to look at them .  
Jon jammed it open with his boot .  
`` I need to speak to him now .  
I would not disturb his rest if it were not important . ''  
Jon had his boot wedged solidly in the door .  
Jon had the logs crackling merrily by the time Chett led in Maester Aemon .  
A maester did not remove it even to sleep .  
When he was settled comfortably , Chett covered his legs with a fur and went to stand by the door .  
`` I am sorry to have woken you , Maester , '' Jon Snow said .  
`` You did not wake me , '' Maester Aemon replied .  
`` I find I need less sleep as I grow older , and I am grown very old .  
I often spend half the night with ghosts , remembering times fifty years past as if they were yesterday .  
So tell me , Jon Snow , why have you come calling at this strange hour ? ''  
`` Only he may say when a boy is ready to swear his vow , as you surely know .  
He told them all of it , even the part where he 'd set Ghost at Rast 's throat .  
My sister Arya could tear him apart , and she 's not yet ten .  
If Ser Alliser makes him fight , it 's only a matter of time before he 's hurt or killed . ''  
`` Tell me , Chett , what would you have us do with such a boy ? ''  
`` I remember once I asked Maester Luwin why he wore a chain around his throat . ''  
`` He told me that a maester 's collar is made of chain to remind him that he is sworn to serve , '' Jon said , remembering .  
A maester forges his chain with study , he told me .  
`` The Night 's Watch needs all sorts too .  
You ca n't hammer tin into iron , no matter how hard you beat it , but that does n't mean tin is useless .  
You think it 's easy work , fit for cowards ?  
`` I 've seen what happens to soft lordlings when they 're put to work .  
`` He can do sums , and he knows how to read and write .  
I know Chett ca n't read , and Clydas has weak eyes .  
Ghost took to him straight off .  
Maester Aemon closed his eyes , and for a brief moment Jon was afraid that he had gone to sleep .  
Finally he said , `` Maester Luwin taught you well , Jon Snow .  
`` It means I shall think on what you have said , '' the maester told him firmly .  
`` And now , I believe I am ready to sleep .  
He stooped to pick up a splintered branch and examined it critically .  
His back ached from the effort of bending ; they had been riding since daybreak , when a stone-faced Ser Lyn Corbray had ushered them through the Bloody Gate and commanded them never to return .  
`` We have no chance of fighting our way back , '' Bronn said , `` but two can cover more ground than ten , and attract less notice .  
Ride hard and fast , I say .  
Try it , as you like ... and forgive me if I do not linger to bury you . ''  
`` You think to outlive me , dwarf ? ''  
I prefer to make my crossing slow and easy .  
I know you love the taste of horse , Bronn , but if our mounts die under us this time , we 'll be trying to saddle shadowcats ... and if truth be told , I think the clans will find us no matter what we do .  
Lady Lysa has kindly provided us with a veritable feast of salt beef , hard cheese , and stale bread , but I would hate to break a tooth so far from the nearest maester . ''  
Beneath a fall of black hair , Bronn 's dark eyes regarded Tyrion suspiciously .  
`` I should leave you here with your fool 's fire .  
If I took your horse , I 'd have twice the chance to make it through .  
`` You do n't think I 'd do it ? ''  
`` You 'd do it in an instant , if it meant your life .  
You were quick enough to silence your friend Chiggen when he caught that arrow in his belly . ''  
Bronn had yanked back the man 's head by the hair and driven the point of his dirk in under the ear , and afterward told Catelyn Stark that the other sellsword had died of his wound .  
Chiggen would have done the same for me ... and he was no friend , only a man I rode with .  
I fought for you , but I do not love you . ''  
`` It was your blade I needed , '' Tyrion said , `` not your love . ''  
He dumped his armful of wood on the ground .  
`` You 're bold as any sellsword , I 'll give you that .  
How did you know I 'd take your part ? ''  
Back at the inn , you and Chiggen helped take me captive .  
The others saw it as their duty , for the honor of the lords they served , but not you two .  
You were thinking Lady Catelyn would reward you for your help , perhaps even take you into her service .  
The Starks look for courage and loyalty and honor in the men they choose to serve them , and if truth be told , you and Chiggen were lowborn scum . ''  
Tyrion struck the flint against his dagger , trying for a spark .  
One day someone is like to cut it out and make you eat it . ''  
`` Did I offend you ?  
Once we reached the Vale , Lady Stark had no more need of you ... but I did , and the one thing the Lannisters have never lacked for is gold .  
When the moment came to toss the dice , I was counting on your being smart enough to know where your best interest lay .  
Happily for me , you did . ''  
He took the knife and flint from Tyrion 's hands and struck sparks on his first try .  
`` Scum you may be , but you 're undeniably useful , and with a sword in your hand you 're almost as good as my brother Jaime .  
Bronn blew gently on the fire , and the flames leapt up higher .  
`` The gold ends when I do . ''  
Bronn stood , tucked the flint back into his pouch , and tossed Tyrion his dagger .  
`` My sword 's yours , then ... but do n't go looking for me to bend the knee and mlord you every time you take a shit .  
`` I 've no doubt you 'd betray me as quick as you did Lady Stark , if you saw a profit in it .  
If the day ever comes when you 're tempted to sell me out , remember this , Bronn-I 'll match their price , whatever it is .  
And now , do you think you could do something about finding us some supper ? ''  
There was something strangely reassuring about the rasping sound it made when he drew it down the steel .  
It might be kinder to let them kill us in our sleep . ''  
`` Oh , I imagine they 'll be here long before it comes to sleep . ''  
`` A Lannister always pays his debts . ''  
Even Mord had scarcely believed it when Tyrion tossed him the leather purse .  
If you ever grow tired of Lady Arryn 's service , present yourself at Casterly Rock , and I 'll pay you the rest of what I owe you . ''  
`` If we do reach the river , what will you do then ? ''  
the sellsword asked as he cut .  
Tyrion held out his trencher , and Bronn filled it with meat .  
`` And then to Casterly Rock or King 's Landing , I think .  
`` Do I look a liar to you ? ''  
`` If I were them , I 'd fear a trap , '' Bronn said .  
`` Then we ought to sing and send them fleeing in terror . ''  
`` If it was music you wanted , you should have gotten the singer to champion you . ''  
I can just see him fending off Ser Vardis with his woodharp . ''  
He resumed his whistling .  
`` You hear it here and there , in inns and whorehouses . ''  
The first girl I ever bedded used to sing it , and I 've never been able to put it out of my head . ''  
`` I met her on a night like this , '' he heard himself saying .  
`` Jaime and I were riding back from Lannisport when we heard a scream , and she came running out into the road with two men dogging her heels , shouting threats .  
My brother unsheathed his sword and went after them , while I dismounted to protect the girl .  
They 'd torn the rags she was wearing half off her back , so I wrapped her in my cloak while Jaime chased the men into the woods .  
It was not often outlaws dared prey on travelers so near to Casterly Rock , and he took it as an insult .  
The girl was too frightened to send off by herself , though , so I offered to take her to the closest inn and feed her while my brother rode back to the Rock for help .  
I was only thirteen , and the wine went to my head , I fear .  
The next thing I knew , I was sharing her bed .  
I 'll never know where I found the courage .  
When I broke her maidenhead , she wept , but afterward she kissed me and sang her little song , and by morning I was in love . ''  
`` I married her , '' he finally admitted .  
I dared not bring my bride home to Casterly Rock , so I set her up in a cottage of her own , and for a fortnight we played at being man and wife .  
Tyrion was surprised at how desolate it made him feel to say it , even after all these years .  
`` He sent the girl away ? ''  
`` First he made my brother tell me the truth .  
He thought it was time I had a woman .  
He paid double for a maiden , knowing it would be my first time .  
`` After Jaime had made his confession , to drive home the lesson , Lord Tywin brought my wife in and gave her to his guards .  
He sat me down in the corner of the barracks and bade me watch , and at the end she had so many silvers the coins were slipping through her fingers and rolling on the floor , she ... '' The smoke was stinging his eyes .  
`` Lord Tywin had me go last , '' he said in a quiet voice .  
`` And he gave me a gold coin to pay her , because I was a Lannister , and worth more . ''  
After a time he heard the noise again , the rasp of steel on stone as Bronn sharpened his sword .  
A Lannister always pays his debts . ''  
`` I think I will try and sleep .  
Wake me if we 're about to die . ''  
He rolled himself up in the shadowskin and shut his eyes .  
`` I fear we 've no wine to offer you , but you 're welcome to some of our goat . ''  
He smashed them together as he lumbered closer .  
Other voices called other names , Conn. and Torrek and Jaggot and more that Tyrion forgot the instant he heard them ; ten at least .  
He waited until they were done shouting out their names before he gave them answer .  
`` I am Tyrion son of Tywin , of the Clan Lannister , the Lions of the Rock .  
We will gladly pay you for the goat we ate . ''  
`` What do you have to give us , Tyrion son of Tywin ? ''  
`` This hauberk I wear is large for me , but it should fit Conn nicely , and the battle-axe I carry would suit Shagga 's mighty hand far better than that wood-axe he holds . ''  
You have nothing to give us but your lives .  
If the Stone Crows will see us safely through these mountains , my lord father will shower you with gold . ''  
What would you give us for your lives , Tyrion son of Tywin ?  
A king should never sit easy , Aegon the Conqueror had said , when he commanded his armorers to forge a great seat from the swords laid down by his enemies .  
Damn Aegon for his arrogance , Ned thought sullenly , and damn Robert and his hunting as well .  
Grand Maester Pycelle stirred uneasily beside him , while Littlefinger toyed with a pen .  
A white hart had been sighted in the kingswood , and Lord Renly and Ser Barristan had joined the king to hunt it , along with Prince Joffrey , Sandor Clegane , Balon Swann , and half the court .  
The villagers were kneeling : men , women , and children , alike tattered and bloody , their faces drawn by fear .  
The west had been a tinderbox since Catelyn had seized Tyrion Lannister .  
Both Riverrun and Casterly Rock had called their banners , and armies were massing in the pass below the Golden Tooth .  
It had only been a matter of time until the blood began to flow .  
He never trusted what a man told him from his knees .  
One ancient needed to be helped , and a young girl in a bloody dress stayed on her knees , staring blankly at Ser Arys Oakheart , who stood by the foot of the throne in the white armor of the Kingsguard , ready to protect and defend the king ... or , Ned supposed , the King 's Hand .  
`` If it please His Grace- '' `` His Grace is hunting across the Blackwater , '' Ned said , wondering how a man could live his whole life a few days ride from the Red Keep and still have no notion what his king looked like .  
`` I am Lord Eddard Stark , the King 's Hand .  
Tell me who you are and what you know of these raiders . ''  
`` I keep ... I kept ... I kept an alehouse , m'lord , in Sherrer , by the stone bridge .  
They come and drank their fill and spilled the rest before they fired my roof , and they would of spilled my blood too , if they 'd caught me .  
`` Come riding in the dark , up from the south , and fired the fields and the houses alike , killing them as tried to stop them .  
They had no mind to steal our stock , not these , they butchered my milk cow where she stood and left her for the flies and the crows . ''  
`` Chased him back and forth across the fields on their horses , poking at him with their lances like it was a game , them laughing and the boy stumbling and screaming till the big one pierced him clean through . ''  
`` They killed my mother too , Your Grace .  
And they ... they ... '' Her voice trailed off , as if she had forgotten what she was about to say .  
`` At Wendish Town , the people sought shelter in their holdfast , but the walls were timbered .  
When the Wendish folk opened their gates to flee the fire , they shot them down with arrows as they came running out , even women with suckling babes . ''  
`` Some wanted to smoke us out , but the big one said there was riper fruit upriver , and they made for the Mummer 's Ford . ''  
Ned could feel cold steel against his fingers as he leaned forward .  
The songs said it had taken a thousand blades to make it , heated white-hot in the furnace breath of Balerion the Black Dread .  
What Eddard Stark was doing sitting there he would never comprehend , yet there he sat , and these people looked to him for justice .  
he asked , trying to keep his fury under control .  
Tell the Hand what you told me . ''  
Many a year I worked in old Ser Willum 's stables , so I knows the difference .  
`` Perhaps they stole the horses from the last place they raided . ''  
`` You say they flew no banners .  
`` It grieves me , m'lord , but no , the armor they showed us was plain , only ... the one who led them , he was armored like the rest , but there was no mistaking him all the same .  
Small wonder they had been so fearful ; they had thought they were being dragged here to name Lord Tywin a red-handed butcher before a king who was his son by marriage .  
He wondered if the knights had given them a choice .  
`` Nor has any man here , '' Ser Raymun added hotly .  
Do you need to see his seal on the corpses ?  
`` I fear we might have forgotten that if you had not pointed it out . ''  
He caught a glimpse of Septa Mordane in the gallery , with his daughter Sansa beside her .  
`` Ser Marq , Ser Karyl , Ser Raymun-perhaps I might ask you a question ?  
When the word of these outrages reached Ser Edmure Tully , he sent word that we should take a small force of men to find what survivors we could and bring them to the king . ''  
I was camped across the river from his walls , awaiting his commands , when the word reached me .  
By the time I could return to my own lands , Clegane and his vermin were back across the Red Fork , riding for Lannister 's hills . ''  
`` If they come again , we 'll use their blood to water the fields they burnt , '' Ser Marq Piper declared hotly .  
And that may be precisely what Lord Tywin wants , Ned thought to himself , to bleed off strength from Riverrun , goad the boy into scattering his swords .  
We ask justice for the smallfolk of Sherrer and Wendish Town and the Mummer 's Ford . ''  
`` Edmure agrees , we must pay Gregor Clegane back his bloody coin , '' Ser Marq declared , `` but old Lord Hoster commanded us to come here and beg the king 's leave before we strike . ''  
If indeed he 'd sent Ser Gregor to burn and pillage and Ned did not doubt that he had-he 'd taken care to see that he rode under cover of night , without banners , in the guise of a common brigand .  
Should Riverrun strike back , Cersei and her father would insist that it had been the Tullys who broke the king 's peace , not the Lannisters .  
`` My lord Hand , if these good folk believe that Ser Gregor has forsaken his holy vows for plunder and rape , let them go to his liege lord and make their complaint .  
`` North , south , east , or west , all we do we do in Robert 's name . ''  
`` Robert bid me to sit here in his place , to listen with his ears , and to speak with his voice .  
I mean to do just that ... though I agree that he must be told . ''  
`` Will you bring them word of what was said and done here today ? ''  
`` Do we have your leave to take our vengeance against Ser Gregor , then ? ''  
`` I thought we were speaking of justice .  
`` People of Sherrer , I can not give you back your homes or your crops , nor can I restore your dead to life .  
Slowly Ned struggled to his feet , pushing himself up from the throne with the strength of his arms , his shattered leg screaming inside its cast .  
He did his best to ignore the pain ; it was no moment to let them see his weakness .  
`` The First Men believed that the judge who called for death should wield the sword , and in the north we hold to that still .  
I mislike sending another to do my killing ... yet it seems I have no choice . ''  
`` I beg you the honor of acting in your place .  
Give this task to me , my lord , and I swear I shall not fail you . ''  
`` Ser Loras , if we send you off alone , Ser Gregor will send us back your head with a plum stuffed in that pretty mouth of yours .  
`` I do not fear Gregor Clegane , '' Ser Loras said haughtily .  
Ned eased himself slowly back onto the hard iron seat of Aegon 's misshapen throne .  
Ned raised his voice , so it carried to the far end of the throne room .  
`` In the name of Robert of the House Baratheon , the First of his Name , King of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men , Lord of the Seven Kingdoms and Protector of the Realm , by the word of Eddard of the House Stark , his Hand , I charge you to ride to the westlands with all haste , to cross the Red Fork of the Trident under the king 's flag , and there bring the king 's justice to the false knight Gregor Clegane , and to all those who shared in his crimes .  
I denounce him , and attaint him , and strip him of all rank and titles , of all lands and incomes and holdings , and do sentence him to death .  
`` No one doubts your valor , Ser Loras , but we are about justice here , and what you seek is vengeance . ''  
Alyn and Porther climbed the steep iron steps to help him back down .  
As they made their descent , he could feel Loras Tyrell 's sullen stare , but the boy had stalked away before Ned reached the floor of the throne room .  
Littlefinger and Grand Maester Pycelle had already taken their leave .  
`` Had it been me up there , I should have sent Ser Loras .  
He so wanted to go ... and a man who has the Lannisters for his enemies would do well to make the Tyrells his friends . ''  
`` I daresay he will outgrow the disappointment . ''  
In truth , Ned did not trust the mute knight , though perhaps that was only because he misliked executioners .  
`` I remind you , the Paynes are bannermen to House Lannister .  
I thought it best to choose men who owed Lord Tywin no fealty . ''  
`` Still , I chanced to see Ser Ilyn in the back of the hall , staring at us with those pale eyes of his , and I must say , he did not look pleased , though to be sure it is hard to tell with our silent knight .  
I hope he outgrows his disappointment as well .  
`` I think it was because of his leg . ''  
Lord Eddard had taken his supper in his bedchamber with Alyn , Harwin , and Vayon Poole , the better to rest his broken leg , and Septa Mordane had complained of sore feet after standing in the gallery all day .  
Arya was supposed to join them , but she was late coming back from her dancing lesson .  
`` Did Ser Loras hurt his leg ? ''  
It hurts him ever so much , it makes him cross .  
Otherwise I 'm certain he would have sent Ser Loras . ''  
When the Knight of Flowers had spoken up , she 'd been sure she was about to see one of Old Nan 's stories come to life .  
She had said as much to Septa Mordane as they descended the stairs from the gallery , but the septa had only told her it was not her place to question her lord father 's decisions .  
That was when Lord Baelish had said , `` Oh , I do n't know , Septa .  
Septa Mordane had been very upset to realize that Lord Baelish had overheard them .  
Tell me , child , why would you have sent Ser Loras ? ''  
`` Well , those are not the reasons I 'd have given , but ... '' He had touched her cheek , his thumb lightly tracing the line of a cheekbone .  
Sansa did not feel like telling all that to Jeyne , however ; it made her uneasy just to think back on it .  
Every time she looked at Ser Ilyn Payne , she shivered .  
I 'm glad Father did n't pick him . ''  
Of course , Jeyne had been in love with Lord Beric ever since she had first glimpsed him in the lists .  
Sansa thought she was being silly ; Jeyne was only a steward 's daughter , after all , and no matter how much she mooned after him , Lord Beric would never look at someone so far beneath him , even if she had n't been half his age .  
It had been more of a wish , actually , but it sounded better to call it a dream .  
White harts were supposed to be very rare and magical , and in her heart she knew her gallant prince was worthier than his drunken father .  
Did Prince Joffrey just go up to it and touch it with his bare hand and do it no harm ? ''  
`` He shot it with a golden arrow and brought it back for me . ''  
In the songs , the knights never killed magical beasts , they just went up to them and touched them and did them no harm , but she knew Joffrey liked hunting , especially the killing part .  
She knew her father was still angry about that , but it was n't fair to blame Joff .  
That would be like blaming her for something that Arya had done .  
`` I 'm sure I do n't know why Arya does anything . ''  
Even when she went riding , she liked the boy to saddle the horse and bring it to her in the yard .  
She had always imagined the Night 's Watch to be men like Uncle Benjen .  
But this man had been crookbacked and hideous , and he looked as though he might have lice .  
If this was what the Night 's Watch was truly like , she felt sorry for her bastard half brother , Jon .  
`` Father asked if there were any knights in the hall who would do honor to their houses by taking the black , but no one came forward , so he gave this Yoren his pick of the king 's dungeons and sent him on his way .  
Father accepted their oaths ... '' Jeyne yawned .  
Sansa did not like being interrupted , but she had to admit , lemon cakes sounded more interesting than most of what had gone on in the throne room .  
They ate it on the tower steps , giggling and gossiping and sharing secrets , and Sansa went to bed that night feeling almost as wicked as Arya .  
The next morning she woke before first light and crept sleepily to her window to watch Lord Beric form up his men .  
When she saw him rein in beside Lord Beric to exchange words , it made Sansa feel ever so proud .  
The Tower of the Hand seemed so empty after they left that Sansa was even pleased to see Arya when she went down to break her fast .  
her sister wanted to know as she ripped the skin from a blood orange .  
`` Did Father send them to hunt down Jaime Lannister ? ''  
`` Septa , will Lord Beric spike Ser Gregor 's head on his own gate or bring it back here for the king ? ''  
I swear , of late you 've been near as bad as your sister . ''  
`` Jaime Lannister murdered Jory and Heward and Wyl , and the Hound murdered Mycah .  
`` Go ahead , call me all the names you want , '' Sansa said airily .  
`` You wo n't dare when I 'm married to Joffrey .  
She shrieked as Arya flung the orange across the table .  
Sansa wiped it away with a napkin .  
When she saw what the fruit in her lap had done to her beautiful ivory silk dress , she shrieked again .  
Sansa stalked away with her head up .  
When she reached her bedchamber , she barred the door and took off her dress .  
`` I hate her ! ''  
When she saw that the stain had bled through onto her underskirt , she began to sob despite herself .  
She ripped off the rest of her clothes wildly , threw herself into bed , and cried herself back to sleep .  
It was midday when Septa Mordane knocked upon her door .  
Your lord father will see you now . ''  
She had been dreaming , she realized .  
Lady was with her , and they were running together , and ... and ... trying to remember was like trying to catch the rain with her fingers .  
`` Do you hear me ? ''  
`` Might I have a moment to dress , please ? ''  
Her eyes were red from crying , but she did her best to make herself beautiful .  
Lord Eddard was bent over a huge leather-bound book when Septa Mordane marched her into the solar , his plaster-wrapped leg stiff beneath the table .  
Septa Mordane returned with Arya squirming in her grasp .  
Sansa had put on a lovely pale green damask gown and a look of remorse , but her sister was still wearing the ratty leathers and roughspun she 'd worn at breakfast .  
`` Arya started it , '' Sansa said quickly , anxious to have the first word .  
`` She called me a liar and threw an orange at me and spoiled my dress , the ivory silk , the one Queen Cersei gave me when I was betrothed to Prince Joffrey .  
She hates that I 'm going to marry the prince .  
Arya raised her eyes .  
I was wrong and I beg my sweet sister 's forgiveness . ''  
Finally she found her voice .  
Sansa threw back her head in disdain .  
`` I did not call you here to talk of dresses .  
I 'm sending you both back to Winterfell . ''  
For the second time Sansa found herself too stunned for words .  
She felt her eyes grow moist again .  
`` At last we 've found something you agree on . ''  
`` Send Arya away , she started it , Father , I swear it .  
I 'll be good , you 'll see , just let me stay and I promise to be as fine and noble and courteous as the queen . ''  
`` Sansa , I 'm not sending you away for fighting , though the gods know I 'm sick of you two squabbling .  
I want you back in Winterfell for your own safety .  
Three of my men were cut down like dogs not a league from where we sit , and what does Robert do ?  
Arya was chewing at her lip in that disgusting way she had .  
`` Can we take Syrio back with us ? ''  
`` Father , I only just now remembered , I ca n't go away , I 'm to marry Prince Joffrey . ''  
`` I love him , Father , I truly truly do , I love him as much as Queen Naerys loved Prince Aemon the Dragonknight , as much as Jonquil loved Ser Florian .  
I want to be his queen and have his babies . ''  
`` I do n't want someone brave and gentle , I want him .  
`` He 's a liar and a craven and anyhow he 's a stag , not a lion . ''  
Sansa felt tears in her eyes .  
`` Gods , `` he swore softly , `` out of the mouth of babes ... '' He shouted for Septa Mordane .  
To the girls he said , `` I am looking for a fast trading galley to take you home .  
You will sail as soon as I can find a proper ship , with Septa Mordane and a complement of guards ... and yes , with Syrio Forel , if he agrees to enter my service .  
It 's better if no one knows of our plans .  
Sansa cried as Septa Mordane marched them down the steps .  
They were going to take it all away ; the tournaments and the court and her prince , everything , they were going to send her back to the bleak grey walls of Winterfell and lock her up forever .  
Her life was over before it had begun .  
It will be an adventure , and then we 'll be with Bran and Robb again , and Old Nan and Hodor and the rest . ''  
She touched her on the arm .  
`` You ought to marry Hodor , you 're just like him , stupid and hairy and ugly ! ''  
She wrenched away from her sister 's hand , stormed into her bedchamber , and barred the door behind her .  
`` It means the bone is knitting , the flesh healing itself .  
I thought you had best know . ''  
`` I feared he would be .  
Every time his leg throbbed , he remembered Jaime Lannister 's smile , and Jory dead in his arms .  
`` Let him write all the letters to the queen he likes .  
The only thing His Grace enjoys more than hunting is making war on lords who defy him . ''  
I thought you had best know , indeed ... as if Cersei had not instructed him to pass along her father 's threats .  
Ned was not near as confident of Robert as he pretended , but there was no reason Cersei need know that .  
A thousand times , he asked himself what Jon Arryn might have done , had he lived long enough to act on what he 'd learned .  
Or perhaps he had acted , and died for it .  
Someday , when Sansa was grown , he would have to tell her how she had made it all come clear for him .  
He 's not the least bit like that old drunken king , she had declared , angry and unknowing , and the simple truth of it had twisted inside him , cold as death .  
This was the sword that killed Jon Anyn , Ned thought then , and it will kill Robert as well , a slower death but full as certain .  
Littlefinger came calling an hour after the Grand Maester had left , clad in a plum-colored doublet with a mockingbird embroidered on the breast in black thread , and a striped cloak of black and white .  
`` Lady Tanda expects me to lunch with her .  
If it 's near as fatted as her daughter , I 'm like to rupture and die .  
`` Just how long does Robert intend to hunt ? ''  
`` Given his preferences , I believe he 'd stay in the forest until you and the queen both die of old age , '' Lord Petyr replied with a faint smile .  
`` Lacking that , I imagine he 'll return as soon as he 's killed something .  
They found the white hart , it seems ... or rather , what remained of it .  
Some wolves found it first , and left His Grace scarcely more than a hoof and a horn .  
Prince Joffrey returned this morning , with the Royces , Ser Balon Swann , and some twenty others of the party .  
Of all the Lannister party , Sandor Clegane was the one who concerned him the most , now that Ser Jaime had fled the city to join his father .  
`` I would have given a hundred silver stags to have been a roach in the rushes when he learned that Lord Beric was off to behead his brother . ''  
`` Even a blind man could see the Hound loathed his brother . ''  
Once Dondarrion lops the summit off our Mountain , the Clegane lands and incomes will pass to Sandor , but I would n't hold my water waiting for his thanks , not that one .  
`` The Lineages and Histories of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms , With Descriptions of Many High Lords and Noble Ladies and Their Children , '' he read .  
`` Now there is tedious reading if ever I saw it .  
For a brief moment Ned considered telling him all of it , but there was something in Littlefinger 's japes that irked him .  
And he responded as he always did : with a quip .  
Lord Petyr Baelish bowed and took his leave .  
Eddard Stark allowed himself a curse .  
Littlefinger had concealed Catelyn and helped Ned in his inquiries , yet his haste to save his own skin when Jaime and his swords had come out of the rain still rankled .  
The king would return from his hunt soon , and honor would require Ned to go to him with all he had learned .  
Vayon Poole had arranged for Sansa and Arya to sail on the Wind Witch out of Braavos , three days hence .  
Lord Tywin had laid the bodies beneath the Iron Throne , wrapped in the crimson cloaks of his house guard .  
Grand Maester Pycelle , Varys the Spider , Lord Balon Greyjoy ; each had been counted an enemy to Robert once , and each had been welcomed into friendship and allowed to retain honors and office for a pledge of fealty .  
This he could never forgive , no more than he had forgiven Rhaegar .  
He will kill them all , Ned realized .  
And yet , he knew he could not keep silent .  
He had a duty to Robert , to the realm , to the shade of Jon Arryn ... and to Bran , who surely must have stumbled on some part of the truth .  
Late that afternoon he summoned Tomard , the portly guardsman with the ginger-colored whiskers his children called Fat Tom .  
With Jory dead and Alyn gone , Fat Tom had command of his household guard .  
Tomard was a solid man ; affable , loyal , tireless , capable in a limited way , but he was near fifty , and even in his youth he had never been energetic .  
Tomard summoned Varly .  
`` I want the guard doubled , '' he told Fat Tom .  
`` M'lord , with Alyn and the others away , we are hardpressed already- '' `` It will only be a short while .  
`` Might I ask why- '' `` Best not , '' Ned answered crisply .  
Ned 's leg was screaming as they lowered him to the grass beside the heart tree .  
He drew a paper from his sleeve , sealed with the sigil of his House .  
Tomard looked at the name Ned had written on the paper and licked his lips anxiously .  
`` My lord ... '' `` Do as I bid you , Tom , '' Ned said .  
How long he waited in the quiet of the godswood , he could not say .  
The heart tree was an oak , brown and faceless , yet Ned Stark still felt the presence of his gods .  
She came to him at sunset , as the clouds reddened above the walls and towers .  
She came alone , as he had bid her .  
When she drew back the hood of her brown cloak , he saw the bruise where the king had struck her .  
Cersei Lannister asked as she stood over him .  
It had been a long time since Ned Stark had seen her beauty , but he saw it now .  
`` I know the truth Jon Arryn died for , '' he told her .  
`` Is that why you called me here , Lord Stark ?  
Or is it your intent to seize me , as your wife seized my brother ? ''  
Ned touched her cheek gently .  
Jaime would have killed him , even if it meant his own life . ''  
We shared a womb together .  
He came into this world holding my foot , our old maester said .  
When he is in me , I feel ... whole . ''  
`` My son Bran ... '' To her credit , Cersei did not look away .  
`` He saw us .  
You love your children , do you not ? ''  
`` No less do I love mine . ''  
Ned thought , if it came to that , the life of some child I did not know , against Robb and Sansa and Arya and Bran and Rickon , what would I do ?  
Even more so , what would Catelyn do , if it were Jon 's life , against the children of her body ?  
He prayed he never would .  
The seed is strong , Jon Arryn had cried on his deathbed , and so it was .  
Grand Maester Malleon recorded the last mating between stag and lion , some ninety years ago , when Tya Lannister wed Gowen Baratheon , third son of the reigning lord .  
She had given him three daughters and a son , each black- haired .  
No matter how far back Ned searched in the brittle yellowed pages , always he found the gold yielding before the coal .  
She lifted her head , defiant .  
`` Your Robert got me with child once , '' she said , her voice thick with contempt .  
He never knew , If truth be told , I can scarcely bear for him to touch me , and I have not let him inside me for years .  
I know other ways to pleasure him , when he leaves his whores long enough to stagger up to my bedchamber .  
Whatever we do , the king is usually so drunk that he 's forgotten it all by the next morning . ''  
`` I remember Robert as he was the day he took the throne , every inch a king , '' he said quietly .  
What did he do to make you hate him so ? ''  
`` The night of our wedding feast , the first time we shared a bed , he called me by your sister 's name .  
He was on top of me , in me , stinking of wine , and he whispered Lyanna. `` Ned Stark thought of pale blue roses , and for a moment he wanted to weep .  
`` I do not know which of you I pity most . ''  
She put her hand on his good leg , just above the knee .  
I swear to you , you shall never regret it . ''  
`` Honor , `` she spat .  
What do you take me for ?  
You 've a bastard of your own , I 've seen him .  
She threw herself into the sea , I 'm told .  
Tell me , my honorable Lord Eddard , how are you any different from Robert , or me , or Jaime ? ''  
If I were you , I should take ship for the Free Cities , or even farther , to the Summer Isles or the Port of Ibben .  
I promise you , no matter where you flee , Robert 's wrath will follow you , to the back of beyond if need be . ''  
Jaime told me how you found him on the Iron Throne the day King 's Landing fell , and made him yield it up .  
`` When you play the game of thrones , you win or you die .  
She turned up her hood to hide her swollen face and left him there in the dark beneath the oak , amidst the quiet of the godswood , under a blue-black sky .  
The heart was steaming in the cool evening air when Khal Drogo set it before her , raw and bloody .  
I am the blood of the dragon , she told herself as she took the stallion 's heart in both hands , lifted it to her mouth , and plunged her teeth into the tough , stringy flesh .  
The taste threatened to gag her , but she made herself chew and swallow .  
The heart of a stallion would make her son strong and swift and fearless , or so the Dothraki believed , but only if the mother could eat it all .  
If she choked on the blood or retched up the flesh , the omens were less favorable ; the child might be stillborn , or come forth weak , deformed , or female .  
Despite the tender mother 's stomach that had afflicted her these past two moons , Dany had dined on bowls of half-clotted blood to accustom herself to the taste , and Irri made her chew strips of dried horseflesh until her jaws were aching .  
She had starved herself for a day and a night before the ceremony in the hopes that hunger would help her keep down the raw meat .  
The wild stallion 's heart was all muscle , and Dany had to worry it with her teeth and chew each mouthful a long time .  
No steel was permitted within the sacred confines of Vaes Dothrak , beneath the shadow of the Mother of Mountains ; she had to rip the heart apart with teeth and nails .  
Her stomach roiled and heaved , yet she kept on , her face smeared with the heartsblood that sometimes seemed to explode against her lips .  
Khal Drogo stood over her as she ate , his face as hard as a bronze shield .  
She looked at him whenever she felt her strength failing ; looked at him , and chewed and swallowed , chewed and swallowed , chewed and swallowed .  
Toward the end , Dany thought she glimpsed a fierce pride in his dark , almond shaped eyes , but she could not be sure .  
Only then did she turn her eyes back to the old women , the crones of the dosh khaleen .  
She had practiced the phrase for days with her handmaid Jhiqui .  
The Dothraki believed the stars were horses made of fire , a great herd that galloped across the sky by night .  
As the smoke ascended , the chanting died away and the ancient crone closed her single eye , the better to peer into the future .  
Khal Drogo laid his hand on Dany 's arm .  
`` I have seen his face , and heard the thunder of his hooves , '' she proclaimed in a thin , wavery voice .  
The bells in his hair will sing his coming , and the milk men in the stone tents will fear his name . ''  
The old woman trembled and looked at Dany almost as if she were afraid .  
Her hands touched the swell beneath her breasts protectively as a roar went up from the Dothraki .  
The name was still ringing in her ears as Khal Drogo led her from the pit .  
When their lord husbands died and a new khal took his place at the front of his riders , with a new khaleesi mounted beside him , they were sent here , to reign over the vast Dothraki nation .  
Still , it gave Dany the shivers to think that one day she might be sent to join them , whether she willed it or no .  
Behind the wise women came the others ; Khal Ogo and his son , the khalakka Fogo , Khal Jommo and his wives , the chief men of Drogo 's khalasar , Dany 's handmaids , the khal 's servants and slaves , and more .  
Khal Drogo asked as they walked , using the Common Tongue of the Seven Kingdoms .  
She had been teaching him a few words when she could .  
Drogo was quick to learn when he put his mind to it , though his accent was so thick and barbarous that neither Ser Jorah nor Viserys could understand a word he said .  
His face was a copper mask , yet under the long black mustache , drooping beneath the weight of its gold rings , she thought she glimpsed the shadow of a smile .  
They rode to the lake the Dothraki called the Womb of the World , surrounded by a fringe of reeds , its water still and calm .  
The procession waited on the grassy shore as Dany stripped and let her soiled clothing fall to the ground .  
Irri said the lake had no bottom , but Dany felt soft mud squishing between her toes as she pushed through the tall reeds .  
Goose Burnps pimples rose on her pale skin as the coldness crept up her thighs and kissed her lower lips .  
Dany cupped her fingers and lifted the sacred waters over her head , cleansing herself and the child inside her while the khal and the others looked on .  
She heard the old women of the dosh khaleen muttering to each other as they watched , and wondered what they were saying .  
When she emerged from the lake , shivering and dripping , her handmaid Doreah hurried to her with a robe of painted sandsilk , but Khal Drogo waved her away .  
He was looking on her swollen breasts and the curve of her belly with approval , and Dany could see the shape of his manhood pressing through his horsehide trousers , below the heavy gold medallions of his belt .  
She went to him and helped him unlace .  
Dany wrapped her arms around his shoulders and pressed her face against his neck as he thrust himself inside her .  
He bit at her throat , hard , in the moment of his pleasure , and when he lifted her off , his seed filled her and trickled down the inside of her thighs .  
Only then was Doreah permitted to drape her in the scented sandsilk , and Irri to fit soft slippers to her feet .  
Drogo spurred his stallion , and set off down the godsway beneath the moon and stars .  
The silk tenting that roofed Khal Drogo 's hall had been rolled up tonight , and the moon followed them inside .  
The hall was crowded and noisy when they entered , the cushions packed with those whose rank and name were not sufficient to allow them at the ceremony .  
The Dothraki screamed out comments on her belly and her breasts , hailing the life within her .  
Many of the men were drunk on clotted mare 's milk , yet Dany knew no arakhs would clash tonight , not here in the sacred city , where blades and bloodshed were forbidden .  
Khal Jommo and Khal Ogo , who had been in Vaes Dothrak with their khalasars when they arrived , were given seats of high honor to Drogo 's right and left .  
As Doreah and Irri arranged her cushions , she searched for her brother .  
Even across the length of the crowded hall , Viserys should have been conspicuous with his pale skin , silvery hair , and beggar 's rags , but she did not see him anywhere .  
Dany sent Jhiqui to bring him to her table .  
`` Khaleesi , `` he said , `` I am yours to command . ''  
`` You honor me . ''  
Ser Jorah took one and bit it in half .  
`` I saw His Grace this morning , '' he told her .  
`` He told me he was going to the Western Market , in search of wine . ''  
Viserys could not abide the taste of the fermented mare 's milk the Dothraki drank , she knew that , and he was oft at the bazaars these days , drinking with the traders who came in the great caravans from east and west .  
A serving girl laid a blood pie in front of him , and he attacked it with both hands .  
`` Jhogo told me .  
`` Then let us hope your brother will be wise enough not to steal anything . ''  
Ser Jorah wiped the grease off his mouth with the back of his hand and leaned close over the table .  
`` He had planned to take your dragon 's eggs , until I warned him that I 'd cut off his hand if he so much as touched them . ''  
`` My eggs ... but they 're mine , Magister Illyrio gave them to me , a bride gift , why would Viserys want ... they 're only stones ... '' `` The same could be said of rubies and diamonds and fire opals , Princess ... and dragon 's eggs are rarer by far .  
Those traders he 's been drinking with would sell their own manhoods for even one of those stones , and with all three Viserys could buy as many sellswords as he might need . ''  
`` My mother died giving me birth , and my father and my brother Rhaegar even before that .  
I would never have known so much as their names if Viserys had not been there to tell me .  
He is all I have . ''  
You belong to the Dothraki now .  
He held out his cup , and a slave filled it with fermented mare 's milk , sour-smelling and thick with clots .  
Dany waved her away .  
Even the smell of it made her feel ill , and she would take no chances of bringing up the horse heart she had forced herself to eat .  
Everyone was shouting it at me , but I do n't understand . ''  
`` I named him Rhaego . ''  
From the lurch in his step , she could tell at once that Viserys had found his wine ... and something that passed for courage .  
The Dothraki eyed the sword as he passed ; Dany heard curses and threats and angry muttering rising all around her , like a tide .  
Tell him he can have the dragon 's eggs if that is what he wants . ''  
Yet even if his words were incomprehensible , you had only to look at him to know that he was drunk .  
Ser Jorah went to him swiftly , whispered something in his ear , and took him by the arm , but Viserys wrenched free .  
Khal Jommo grinned , and Khal Ogo began to guffaw loudly .  
The sound of laughter made Viserys lift his eyes .  
He clapped his hands together .  
Her brother shouted back and the two men grappled , until Mormont knocked Viserys bodily to the floor .  
Ser Jorah backed off a step , and her brother climbed unsteadily to his feet .  
He waved the sword over his head , the borrowed blade that Magister Illyrio had given him to make him seem more kingly .  
She knew what a drawn sword meant here , even if her brother did not .  
Her voice made Viserys turn his head , and he saw her for the first time .  
He stalked toward her , slashing at the air as if to cut a path through a wall of enemies , though no one tried to bar his way .  
He laid the point of his sword between Daenerys 's breasts and slid it downward , over the curve of her belly .  
`` I want what I came for , '' he told her .  
`` I want the crown he promised me .  
He bought you , but he never paid for you .  
Tell him I want what I bargained for , or I 'm taking you back .  
Viserys was weeping , she saw ; weeping and laughing , both at the same time , this man who had once been her brother .  
Distantly , as from far away , Dany heard her handmaid Jhiqui sobbing in fear , pleading that she dared not translate , that the khal would bind her and drag her behind his horse all the way up the Mother of Mountains .  
She put her arm around the girl .  
She did not know if she had enough words , yet when she was done Khal Drogo spoke a few brusque sentences in Dothraki , and she knew he understood .  
It had grown so silent in the hall that she could hear the bells in Khal Drogo 's hair , chiming softly with each step he took .  
Viserys smiled and lowered his sword .  
That was the saddest thing , the thing that tore at her afterward ... the way he smiled .  
When the sun of her life reached her , Dany slid an arm around his waist .  
Qotho seized the man who had been her brother by the arms .  
Khal Drogo unfastened his belt .  
Drogo tossed in the belt and watched without expression as the medallions turned red and began to lose their shape .  
A slave handed him a pair of thick horsehair mittens , and he pulled them on , never so much as looking at the man .  
Viserys began to scream the high , wordless scream of the coward facing death .  
He kicked and twisted , whimpered like a dog and wept like a child , but the Dothraki held him tight between them .  
Ser Jorah had made his way to Dany 's side .  
`` Turn away , my princess , I beg you . ''  
She folded her arms across the swell of her belly , protectively .  
`` Sister , please ... Dany , tell them ... make them ... sweet sister ... '' When the gold was half-melted and starting to run , Drogo reached into the flames , snatched out the pot .  
He was no dragon , Dany thought , curiously calm .  
He was walking through the crypts beneath Winterfell , as he had walked a thousand times before .  
The Kings of Winter watched him pass with eyes of ice , and the direwolves at their feet turned their great stone heads and snarled .  
Last of all , he came to the tomb where his father slept , with Brandon and Lyanna beside him .  
Eddard Stark jerked upright , his heart racing , the blankets tangled around him .  
Groggy and naked , he stumbled his way across the darkened chamber .  
When he opened the door , he found Tomard with an upraised fist , and Cayn with a taper in hand .  
Ned left the man waiting without .  
The Red Keep was dark and still as Cayn and Tomard escorted him across the inner bailey .  
Within , Ned passed two other knights of the Kingsguard ; Ser Preston Greenfield stood at the bottom of the steps , and Ser Barristan Selmy waited at the door of the king 's bedchamber .  
Three men in white cloaks , he thought , remembering , and a strange chill went through him .  
At the bedside hovered Grand Maester Pycelle , while Lord Renly paced restlessly before the shuttered windows .  
They followed Ned as Tomard and Cayn helped him cross the room .  
He seemed to move very slowly , as if he were still dreaming .  
Ned could see dried mud and blades of grass clinging to the leather where Robert 's feet stuck out beneath the blanket that covered him , A green doublet lay on the floor , slashed open and discarded , the cloth crusted with red-brown stains .  
His men brought him close .  
`` My brother commanded us to stand aside and let him take the boar alone . ''  
But I ... I paid him back in kind , Ned . ''  
Ask them if I did n't .  
`` Robert , my sweet lord Cersei began .  
Grand Maester Pycelle lingered , his hands shaking as he offered the king a cup of thick white liquid .  
Robert knocked the cup away with the back of his hand .  
Grand Maester Pycelle gave Ned a stricken look as he shuffled from the room .  
`` I killed the bastard , did n't I ? ''  
Ser Robar found me .  
Let Cersei surprise him . ''  
Only a child , you were right ... that 's why , the girl ... the gods sent the boar ... sent to punish me ... '' The king coughed , bringing up blood .  
`` Wrong , it was wrong , I ... only a girl ... Varys , Littlefinger , even my brother ... worthless ... no one to tell me no but you , Ned ... only you ... '' He lifted his hand , the gesture pained and feeble .  
`` This is the will and word of Robert of House Baratheon , the First of his Name , King of the Andals and all the rest-put in the damn titles , you know how it goes .  
I do hereby command Eddard of House Stark , Lord of Winterfell and Hand of the King , to serve as Lord Regent Cersei Lannister and Protector of the Realm upon my ... upon my death ... to rule in my ... in my stead , until my son Joffrey does come of age ... `` Robert Joffrey is not your son , he wanted to say , but the words would not come .  
The deceit made him feel soiled .  
The lies we tellfor love , he thought .  
May the gods forgive me .  
`` What else would you have me say ? ''  
You give it to the council when I 'm dead . ''  
Robert took his hand , fingers squeezing hard .  
`` The realm ... the realm knows ... what a wretched king I 've been .  
Bad as Aerys , the gods spare me . ''  
You 'll hate it , worse than I did ... but you 'll do well .  
Ned offered Robert the paper .  
If you can , if it ... not too late ... talk to them ... Varys , Littlefinger ... do n't let them kill her .  
`` Shall I call them back ? ''  
If she had any sense , Cersei would take her children and fly before the break of day , Ned thought .  
King Robert did not seem to miss her .  
He bid his brother Renly and Grand Maester Pycelle to stand in witness as he pressed his seal into the hot yellow wax that Ned had dripped upon his letter .  
`` Now give me something for the pain and let me die . ''  
Hurriedly Grand Maester Pycelle mixed him another draught of the milk of the poppy .  
Ned gave him his answer .  
Then he remembered the bastards : little Barra at her mother 's breast , Mya in the Vale , Gendry at his forge , and all the others .  
`` I shall ... guard your children as if they were my own , '' he said slowly .  
Robert nodded and closed his eyes .  
Heavy chains jangled softly as Grand Maester Pycelle came up to Ned .  
`` I will do all in my power , my lord , but the wound has mortified .  
By the time I saw him , it was too late .  
I can lessen His Grace 's suffering , but only the gods can heal him now . ''  
I have never seen a man cling to life so fiercely . ''  
He might have been Robert 's ghost as he stood there , young and dark and handsome .  
His entrails were sliding from his belly , yet somehow he slew the boar . ''  
`` Robert was never a man to leave the battleground so long as a foe remained standing , '' Ned told him .  
I have seen him take a thousand of them . ''  
He would stand his ground without flinching , his legs braced , the great spear in his hands , and as often as not he would curse the boar as it charged , and wait until the last possible second , until it was almost on him , before he killed it with a single sure and savage thrust .  
`` His Grace was reeling in his saddle by the time we flushed the boar from his lair , yet he commanded us all to stand aside . ''  
Ned had not heard the eunuch approach , but when he looked around , there he stood .  
His squire would fetch him a fresh skin whenever he required it . ''  
He recalled the two fair-haired boys Robert had sent chasing after a breastplate stretcher .  
`` I know the lad well , '' said Varys .  
Children are so vulnerable in the innocence of their youth , how well do I remember . ''  
Ned doubted that he had ever been innocent .  
Robert had a change of heart concerning Daenerys Targaryen .  
Whatever arrangements you made , I want unmade .  
I fear those birds have flown .  
He bowed and vanished down the steps , his soft-soled slippers whispering against the stone as he made his descent .  
Cayn and Tomard were helping Ned across the bridge when Lord Renly emerged from Maegor 's Holdfast .  
Tomard and Cayn bowed their heads and backed away respectfully .  
`` We must get Joffrey away from his mother and take him in hand .  
Once we have her children , Cersei will not dare oppose us .  
Ned regarded him coldly .  
By the time Ned returned to his chambers , he felt weary and heartsick , yet there was no question of his going back to sleep , not now .  
When you play the game of thrones , you win or you die , Cersei Lannister had told him in the godswood .  
He found himself wondering if he had done the right thing by refusing Lord Renly 's offer .  
He had no taste for these intrigues , and there was no honor in threatening children , and yet ... if Cersei elected to fight rather than flee , he might well have need of Renly 's hundred swords , and more besides .  
`` I want Littlefinger , '' he told Cayn .  
`` If he 's not in his chambers , take as many men as you need and search every winesink and whorehouse in King 's Landing until you find him .  
Cayn bowed and took his leave , and Ned turned to Tomard .  
I need you to deliver a letter for me . ''  
`` Tell Captain Qos to hoist my banner as soon as he comes in sight of the island .  
If he is reluctant , offer him whatever it takes .  
When Tomard had left him , Lord Eddard Stark sat staring at the flame of the candle that burned beside him on the table .  
Men would whisper afterward that Eddard Stark had betrayed his king 's friendship and disinherited his sons ; he could only hope that the gods would know better , and that Robert would learn the truth of it in the land beyond the grave .  
To His Grace , Stannis of the House Baratheon , he wrote .  
Lord Tywin and Ser Jaime were not men to suffer disgrace meekly ; they would fight rather than flee .  
No doubt Lord Stannis was wary , after the murder of Jon Arryn , but it was imperative that he sail for King 's Landing at once with all his power , before the Lannisters could march .  
When he was done , he signed the letter Eddard Stark , Lord of Winterfell , Hand of the King , and Protector of the Realm , blotted the paper , folded it twice , and melted the sealing wax over the candle flame .  
His regency would be a short one , he reflected as the wax softened .  
He wanted to hear Bran 's laughter once more , to go hawking with Robb , to watch Rickon at play .  
Cayn returned as he was pressing the direwolf seal down into the soft white wax .  
Ned thanked his guards and sent them away .  
`` I also know that Robert has named you Protector of the Realm . ''  
Catelyn spoke truly , the man has some black art .  
`` Yet I 'll wager you did not drag me here in the black of night to discuss the eunuch . ''  
Lord Petyr stroked his pointed beard as he considered the matter .  
If you 're wise , you 'll make certain Joffrey succeeds . ''  
No doubt he 'll thank you for handing him the crown , but he wo n't love you for it .  
Do you think Lord Tywin will sit idly while his daughter 's head is measured for a spike ?  
Robert found it in him to pardon men who served King Aerys , so long as they did him fealty .  
Seat Stannis on the Iron Throne and I promise you , the realm will bleed .  
Joffrey is but twelve , and Robert gave you the regency , my lord .  
All you need do is reach out and take it .  
I assure you , my price would be modest . ''  
`` You forget Jon Arryn .  
He drew the dagger and laid it on the table between them ; a length of dragonbone and Valyrian steel , as sharp as the difference between right and wrong , between true and false , between life and death .  
`` They sent a man to cut my son 's throat , Lord Baelish . ''  
`` I fear I did forget , my lord .  
For a moment I did not remember that I was talking to a Stark . ''  
`` Far be it from me to dispute the Lord Protector .  
`` I called you here to ask for the help you promised Catelyn .  
Robert has named me Protector , true enough , but in the eyes of the world , Joffrey is still his son and heir .  
And for all I know , her brother Jaime may be riding for King 's Landing even as we speak , with a Lannister host at his back . ''  
Littlefinger toyed with the dagger on the table , turning it slowly with a finger .  
Bronze Yohn Royce , Ser Balon Swann , Ser Loras , Lady Tanda , the Redwyne twins ... each of them has a retinue of knights and sworn swords here at court . ''  
`` Ah , but when the queen proclaims one king and the Hand another , whose peace do they protect ? ''  
Lord Petyr flicked at the dagger with his finger , setting it spinning in place .  
Round and round it went , wobbling as it turned .  
When at last it slowed to a stop , the blade pointed at Littlefinger .  
`` You wear your honor like a suit of armor , Stark .  
You think it keeps you safe , but all it does is weigh you down and make it hard for you to move .  
You know why you summoned me here .  
You know what you want to ask me to do .  
You know it has to be done ... but it 's not honorable , so the words stick in your throat . ''  
For a moment he was so angry that he did not trust himself to speak .  
`` I ought to make you say it , but that would be cruel ... so have no fear , my good lord .  
For the sake of the love I bear for Catelyn , I will go to Janos Slynt this very hour and make certain that the City Watch is yours .  
We might be able to buy them for half that much , but I prefer not to take chances . ''  
Smiling , he plucked up the dagger and offered it to Ned , hilt first .  
JON Jon was breaking his fast on applecakes and blood sausage when Samwell Tarly plopped himself down on the bench .  
I 'm to assist Maester Aemon with the library and the birds .  
Pyp 's mouth dropped open when he caught sight of Sam , and Toad poked Grenn in the ribs , but no one dared say a word .  
Behind them came the senior members of the three orders : red-faced Bowen Marsh the Lord Steward , First Builder Othell Yarwyck , and Ser Jaremy Rykker , who commanded the rangers in the absence of Benjen Stark .  
Mormont stood before the altar , the rainbow shining on his broad bald head .  
You came to us alone , in chains , with neither friends nor honor .  
You came to us rich , and you came to us poor .  
`` At evenfall , as the sun sets and we face the gathering night , you shall take your vows .  
`` A man of the Night 's Watch lives his life for the realm .  
Think carefully before you say them , for once you have taken the black , there is no turning back .  
The Old Bear paused for a moment before he said , `` Are there any among you who wish to leave our company ?  
`` I expect you will want to say your words before a heart tree , as your uncle did , '' Mormont said .  
The gods of the sept had nothing to do with him ; the blood of the First Men flowed in the veins of the Starks .  
He heard Grenn whispering behind him .  
`` You would n't see a herd of aurochs until they trampled you into the snow , '' Pyp whispered back .  
Mormont himself confirmed Grenn 's doubts .  
Beyond the Wall the haunted forest stands as it stood in the Dawn Age , long before the Andals brought the Seven across the narrow sea .  
`` Might I ... might I go as well ?  
The high officers frightened him , Jon knew , the Old Bear most of all .  
`` The Night 's Watch is my House now , '' Sam said .  
`` The Seven have never answered my prayers .  
Sam took his seat again , as did Jon .  
Pyp looked over at Jon and wiggled his ears .  
For a moment Jon could not believe what he had heard .  
He started to rise , to open his mouth , to tell them there had been a mistake ... and then he saw Ser Alliser studying him , eyes shiny as two flakes of obsidian , and he knew .  
Jon had never seen the masterat-arms took quite so happy .  
Pyp was staring at Jon as he got slowly to his feet .  
Matt and Toad fell in beside them , and they followed Ser Jaremy from the sept. `` Builders , '' announced lantern-jawed Othell Yarwyck .  
Halder and Albett trailed out after him .  
Only Sam and Darcon remained on the benches ; a fat boy , a singer ... and him .  
Lord Steward Bowen Marsh rubbed his plump hands together .  
`` Dareon , I am told that you sang at many a high lord 's table and shared their meat and mead .  
We are paying too dear for salt beef and pickled fish , and the quality of the olive oil we 're getting has been frightful , Present yourself to Borcas when you arrive , he will keep you busy between ships . ''  
Marsh turned his smile on Jon .  
`` Lord Commander Mormont has requested you for his personal steward , Jon .  
`` Will I serve the Lord Commander 's meals , help him fasten his clothes , fetch hot water for his bath ? ''  
`` And you will run his messages , keep a fire burning in his chambers , change his sheets and blankets daily , and do all else that the Lord Commander might require of YOU . ''  
`` Do you take me for a servant ? ''  
`` We took you for a man of Night 's Watch ... but perhaps we were wrong in that . ''  
`` May I go ? ''  
Dareon and Sam left with him .  
Jon 's rage was such that he would have smashed it all in an instant , and the world be damned .  
Do n't you see what they 're doing ? ''  
`` I see Ser Alliser 's bloody hand , that 's all I see .  
He wanted to shame me , and he has . ''  
She pulled me through the window , and you talk to me of fair ? ''  
`` Do you think I want to spend the rest of my life washing an old man 's smallclothes ? ''  
Yes , you 'll pour his wine and see that his bed linen is fresh , but you 'll also take his letters , attend him at meetings , squire for him in battle .  
You 'll know everything , be a part of everything ... and the Lord Steward said Mormont asked for you himself !  
`` When I was little , my father used to insist that I attend him in the audience chamber whenever he held court .  
When he rode to Highgarden to bend his knee to Lord Tyrell , he made me come .  
Later , though , he started to take Dickon and leave me at home , and he no longer cared whether I sat through his audiences , so long as Dickon was there .  
He wanted his heir at his side , do n't you see ?  
I 'll wager that 's why Lord Mormont requested you , Jon .  
It was true , Lord Eddard had often made Robb part of his councils back at Winterfell .  
Craven or not , Samwell Tarly had found the courage to accept his fate like a man .  
On the Wall , a man gets only what he earns , Benjen Stark had said the last night Jon had seen him alive .  
He 'd heard it said that bastards grow up faster than other children ; on the Wall , you grew up or you died .  
They led their horses down a narrow tunnel cut through the ice , cold dark walls pressing in around them as the passage twisted and turned .  
Three times their way was blocked by iron bars , and they had to stop while Bowen Marsh drew out his keys and unlocked the massive chains that secured them .  
Jon could sense the vast weight pressing down on him as he waited behind the Lord Steward .  
He felt a strange relief when they reemerged into the afternoon light on the north side of the Wall .  
When Bowen Marsh and their ranger escort had mounted , Jon put two fingers in his mouth and whistled .  
Once they had entered the forest , they were in a different world .  
Jon had often hunted with his father and Jory and his brother Robb .  
Jon drew in a breath , and be saw Sam Tarly staring .  
Bowen Marsh commanded them to leave their horses outside the circle .  
When they entered the grove , Samwell Tarly turned slowly looking at each face in turn .  
I pledge my life and honor to the Night 's Watch , for this night and all the nights to come . ''  
Jon held out a hand to pull Sam back to his feet .  
`` Dark 's falling , and there 's something in the smell o ' the night that I mislike . ''  
White fur and red eyes , Jon realized , disquieted .  
He lifted his head from the table to look down into the yard .  
Damn her , he thought , why is the woman not fled ?  
Ned broke his fast with his daughters and Septa Mordane .  
Sansa , still disconsolate , stared sullenly at her food and refused to eat , but Arya wolfed down everything that was set in front of her .  
`` Syrio says we have time for one last lesson before we take ship this evening , '' she said .  
`` If she can have a dancing lesson , why wo n't you let me say farewell to Prince Joffrey ? ''  
`` It would not be wise for you to go to Joffrey right now , Sansa .  
Sansa pushed back from her table , knocked over her chair , and ran weeping from the solar .  
Septa Mordane rose , but Ned gestured her back to her seat .  
`` Let her go , Septa .  
It was an hour later when Grand Maester Pycelle came to Eddard Stark in his solar .  
The gods give him love and laughter , and the joy of righteous battle . ''  
It was strange how empty he felt .  
He would have given all his titles for the freedom to weep ... but he was Robert 's Hand , and the hour he dreaded had come .  
`` Be so good as to summon the members of the council here to my solar , '' he told Pycelle .  
The Tower of the Hand was as secure as he and Tomard could make it ; he could not say the same for the council chambers .  
`` I fear we must convene at once . ''  
He called his servants and sent them running , then gratefully accepted Ned 's offer of a chair and a cup of sweet beer .  
Pray give me leave to attend him . ''  
Littlefinger came next , still garbed in the blue velvets and silver mockingbird cape he had worn the night previous , his boots dusty from riding .  
`` I fear Lord Renly has left the city . ''  
Lord Renly and Grand Maester Pycelle stood witness as Robert sealed the letter , to be opened by the council after his death .  
`` Lord Eddard Stark is herein named Protector of the Realm , to rule as regent until the heir comes of age . ''  
And as it happens , he is of age , Ned reflected , but he did not give voice to the thought .  
He trusted neither Pycelle nor Varys , and Ser Barristan was honor-bound to protect and defend the boy he thought his new king .  
The need for deceit was a bitter taste in his mouth , but Ned knew he must tread softly here , must keep his counsel and play the game until he was firmly established as regent .  
There would be time enough to deal with the succession when Arya and Sansa were safely back in Winterfell , and Lord Stannis had returned to King 's Landing with all his power .  
`` I would ask this council to confirm me as Lord Protector , as Robert wished , '' Ned said , watching their faces , wondering what thoughts hid behind Pycelle 's half-closed eyes , Littlefinger 's lazy half-smile , and the nervous flutter of Varys 's fingers .  
Ned had expected Cersei to strike quickly ; the summons came as no surprise .  
Littlefinger gave Ned his arm to help him down the steps .  
Varys , Pycelle , and Ser Barristan followed close behind .  
`` All hail His Grace , Joffrey of the Houses Baratheon and Lannister , the First of his Name , King of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men , Lord of the Seven Kingdoms and Protector of the Realm , '' he sang out .  
Supported by Littlefinger , Ned Stark slowly limped and hopped toward the boy who called himself king .  
The first time he had come this way , he had been on horseback , sword in hand , and the Targaryen dragons had watched from the walls as he forced Jaime Lannister down from the throne .  
Five knights of the Kingsguard-all but Ser Jaime and Ser Barristan-were arrayed in a crescent around the base of the throne .  
He wore mail and soot-grey plate and his snarling dog's-head helm .  
But Littlefinger had kept his promise ; all along the walls , in front of Robert 's tapestries with their scenes of hunt and battle , the gold-cloaked ranks of the City Watch stood stiffly to attention , each man 's hand clasped around the haft of an eight-foot-long spear tipped in black iron .  
Ned 's leg was a blaze of pain by the time he stopped .  
He kept a hand on Littlefinger 's shoulder to help support his weight .  
Ned produced Robert 's letter .  
`` Lord Eddard , when last we spoke , you gave me some counsel .  
Bend the knee and swear fealty to my son , and we shall allow you to step down as Hand and live out your days in the grey waste you call home . ''  
If she was so determined to force the issue here and now , she left him no choice .  
`` Your son has no claim to the throne he sits .  
`` Mother , what does he mean ? ''  
`` You condemn yourself with your own mouth , Lord Stark , '' said Cersei Lannister .  
`` Do you think Ser Barristan stands alone , my lord ? ''  
With an ominous rasp of metal on metal , the Hound drew his longsword .  
`` Kill all of them , I command it ! ''  
`` You leave me no choice , '' Ned told Cersei Lannister .  
Do them no harm , but escort them back to the royal apartments and keep them there , under guard . ''  
Janos Slynt shouted , donning his helm .  
Cayn whirled , steel flashing , drove back the nearest spearman with a flurry of blows ; for an instant it looked as though he might cut his way free .  
As his men died around him , Littlefinger slid Ned 's dagger from its sheath and shoved it up under his chin .  
`` I did warn you not to trust me , you know . ''  
The clack made him click his teeth together .  
She almost touched him , almost , so close it made her grin .  
She pushed it away with the back of her hand .  
A bruise is a lesson , she told herself , and each lesson makes us better .  
`` You said left and you went right . ''  
My eyes and my arm shouted out the truth , but you were not seeing . ''  
She followed him over to the wall , where he settled onto a bench .  
`` Syrio Forel was first sword to the Sealord of Braavos , and are you knowing how that came to pass ? ''  
I will tell you now . ''  
`` On the day I am speaking of , the first sword was newly dead , and the Sealord sent for me .  
When I came into his presence , he was seated , and in his lap was a fat yellow cat .  
He told me that one of his captains had brought the beast to him , from an island beyond the sunrise .  
'Have you ever seen her like she asked of me .  
And it was plainly a tomcat , yet the Sealord said 'her , ' and that is what the others saw .  
Arya thought about it .  
The heart lies and the head plays tricks with us , but the eyes see true .  
`` I am thinking that when we are reaching this Winterfell of yours , it will be time to put this needle in your hand . ''  
`` Wait till I show Jon- '' Behind her the great wooden doors of the Small Hall flew open with a resounding crash .  
A knight of the Kingsguard stood beneath the arch of the door with five Lannister guardsmen arrayed behind him .  
Arya remembered his droopy eyes and rustcolored whiskers from when he had come to Winterfell with the king : Ser Meryn Trant .  
Arya chewed her lip uncertainly .  
Arya took a step forward , but Syrio Forel held her by the arm .  
`` I am a Sworn Brother of the Kingsguard , the White Swords . ''  
`` So was the Kingslayer when he killed the old king , '' Arya said .  
`` I do n't have to go with you if I do n't want . ''  
Fear cuts deeper than swords , she told herself , to slow the racing of her heart .  
Syrio Forel stepped between them , tapping his wooden sword lightly against his boot .  
`` I am Syrio Forel , and you will now be speaking to me with more respect . ''  
Arya heard a loud crack as the sword went clattering to the stone floor .  
Syrio Forel clicked his teeth together , sliding into his water dancer 's stance , presenting only his side to the foe .  
Arya did not want to leave him , but he had taught her to do as he said .  
`` Swift as a deer , `` she whispered .  
Arya retreated , her own sword stick clutched tightly in her hand .  
Watching him now , she realized that Syrio had only been toying with her when they dueled .  
Syrio rolled right , and the butcher 's cut caught the helmetless man between neck and shoulder as he struggled to his knees .  
Before his killer could wrench free his blade , Syrio jabbed him in the apple of his throat .  
Syrio Forel resumed his stance and clicked his teeth together .  
In a heartbeat , he had bounced blows off the knight 's temple , elbow , and throat , the wood ringing against the metal of helm , gauntlet , and gorget .  
Ser Meryn advanced ; Syrio backed away .  
She heard shouting behind her as she spun around a portly butcher who stood gaping at her with a cleaver in his hands .  
All that Syrio Forel had taught her went racing through her head .  
The grip of her wooden sword was slick with sweat , and Arya was breathing hard when she reached the turret stair .  
Never do what they expect , Syrio once said .  
She had to find her father and tell him what had happened .  
Arya thrust her wooden sword through her belt and began to climb , leaping from cask to cask until she could reach the window .  
When her head reached ground level , she peered across the bailey to the Tower of the Hand .  
She remembered what the man with the yellow beard had said , the day she had found the monsters .  
Arya felt tears in her eyes .  
She held her breath to listen .  
Her father ... Arya closed her eyes .  
They had killed Jory and Wyl and Heward , and that guardsman on the step , whoever he had been .  
They could kill her father too , and her if they caught her .  
`` Fear cuts deeper than swords , `` she said aloud , but it was no good pretending to be a water dancer , Syrio had been a water dancer and the white knight had probably killed him , and anyhow she was only a little girl with a wooden stick , alone and afraid .  
She squirmed out into the yard , glancing around warily as she climbed to her feet .  
Arya glanced up longingly at her bedchamber , then moved away from the Tower of the Hand , keeping close to the wall as she slid from shadow to shadow .  
She pretended she was chasing cats ... except she was the cat now , and if they caught her , they would kill her .  
Moving between buildings and over walls , keeping stone to her back wherever possible so no one could surprise her , Arya reached the stables almost without incident .  
A dozen gold cloaks in mail and plate ran past as she was edging across the inner bailey , but without knowing whose side they were on , she hunched down low in the shadows and let them pass .  
He had been stabbed so many times it looked as if his tunic was patterned with scarlet flowers .  
Arya was certain he was dead , but when she crept closer , his eyes opened .  
`` You must ... warn your ... your lord father ... '' Frothy red spittle bubbled from his mouth .  
The dead men must have been loading it for the trip to the docks when they were attacked .  
One of the corpses was Desmond , who 'd shown her his longsword and promised to protect her father .  
He lay on his back , staring blindly at the ceiling as flies crawled across his eyes .  
Every northerner is worth ten of these southron swords , Desmond had told her .  
All she had to do was stay on the kingsroad and it would take her back to Winterfell .  
Arya recognized silks and satins and velvets she never wore .  
She found a heavy woolen cloak , a velvet skirt and a silk tunic and some smallclothes , a dress her mother had embroidered for her , a silver baby bracelet she might sell .  
Shoving the broken lid out of the way , she groped inside the chest for Needle .  
She had hidden it way down at the bottom , under everything , but her stuff had all been jumbled around when the chest was dropped .  
His boots were covered with manure , and he had a pitchfork in one hand .  
`` She do n't know me , '' he said , `` but I knows her , oh , yes .  
`` Help me saddle a horse , '' Arya pleaded , reaching back into the chest , groping for Needle .  
He grabbed her arm , hard .  
Everything Syrio Forel had ever taught her vanished in a heartbeat .  
In that instant of sudden terror , the only lesson Arya could remember was the one Jon Snow had given her , the very first .  
Needle went through his leather jerkin and the white flesh of his belly and came out between his shoulder blades .  
When she took it out , he died .  
Blood had gushed from the boy 's mouth as he collapsed , and more was seeping from the slit in his belly , pooling beneath his body .  
She backed away slowly , Needle red in her hand .  
She snatched up the bridle and harness again and ran to her mare , but as she lifted the saddle to the horse 's back , Arya realized with a sudden sick dread that the castle gates would be closed .  
If they thought she was a boy , perhaps they 'd let her ... no , they 'd have orders not to let anyone out , it would n't matter whether they knew her or not .  
She was n't certain , yet she knew she had to try .  
She found the clothing she 'd gathered and slipped into the cloak , concealing Needle beneath its folds .  
The rest of her things she tied in a roll .  
What would they do if they saw her running across the yard ?  
She had to leave now , she told herself , but when the moment came , she was too frightened to move .  
Arya was so startled she almost dropped her bundle .  
Quiet as a shadow , she heard .  
She could not tell , yet somehow it calmed her fears .  
She wanted to run and hide , but she made herself walk across the yard , slowly , putting one foot in front of the other as if she had all the time in the world and no reason to be afraid of anyone .  
She thought she could feel their eyes , like bugs crawling on her skin under her clothes .  
If she saw them watching , all her courage would desert her , she knew , and she would drop the bundle of clothes and run and cry like a baby , and then they would have her .  
She kept her gaze on the ground .  
By the time she reached the shadow of the royal sept on the far side of the yard , Arya was cold with sweat , but no one had raised the hue and cry .  
She stuffed them up her sleeves , and left by a back window .  
Sneaking back to the alley where she had cornered the one-eared tom was easy , but after that she got lost .  
Once she heard a woman weeping .  
It took her more than an hour to find the low narrow window that slanted down to the dungeon where the monsters waited .  
She tossed her bundle through and doubled back to light her candle .  
That was chancy ; the fire she 'd remembered seeing had burnt down to embers , and she heard voices as she was blowing on the coals .  
Cupping her fingers around the flickering candle , she went out the window as they were coming in the door , without ever getting a glimpse of who it was .  
Arya held the candle over her head .  
With each step she took , the shadows moved against the walls , as if they were turning to watch her pass .  
She slid Needle out from under her cloak .  
The slender blade seemed very small and the dragons very big , yet somehow Arya felt better with steel in her hand .  
She held Needle in her left hand , her sword hand , the candle in her right fist .  
The entrance to the well had been to the left , so Arya went right .  
She could almost see the stableboy standing against the wall , his hands curled into claws with the blood still dripping from the deep gashes in his palms where Needle had cut him .  
He might be waiting to grab her as she passed .  
Maybe she would be better off without the light ... Fear cuts deeper than swords , the quiet voice inside her whispered .  
Suddenly Arya remembered the crypts at Winterfell .  
They were a lot scarier than this place , she told herself .  
She 'd been just a little girl the first time she saw them .  
Her brother Robb had taken them down , her and Sansa and baby Bran , who 'd been no bigger than Rickon was now .  
They 'd only had one candle between them , and Bran 's eyes had gotten as big as saucers as he stared at the stone faces of the Kings of Winter , with their wolves at their feet and their iron swords across their laps .  
Robb took them all the way down to the end , past Grandfather and Brandon and Lyanna , to show them their own tombs .  
Old Nan had told her there were spiders down here , and rats as big as dogs .  
Robb smiled when she said that .  
When the spirit stepped out of the open tomb , pale white and moaning for blood , Sansa ran shrieking for the stairs , and Bran wrapped himself around Robb 's leg , sobbing .  
Arya stood her ground and gave the spirit a punch .  
The memory made Arya smile , and after that the darkness held no more terrors for her .  
The stableboy was dead , she 'd killed him , and if he jumped out at her she 'd kill him again .  
Her footsteps sent soft echoes hurrying ahead of her as Arya plunged deeper into the darkness .  
`` I 'll ask the queen to let you see him . ''  
Even within the stout walls of Maegor 's Holdfast , with her door closed and barred , it was hard not to be terrified when the killing began .  
She heard it as she had never heard it before , and there were other sounds as well , grunts of pain , angry curses , shouts for help , and the moans of wounded and dying men .  
So she wept , pleading through her door for them to tell her what was happening , calling for her father , for Septa Mordane , for the king , for her gallant prince .  
If the men guarding her heard her pleas , they gave no answer .  
The only time the door opened was late that night , when they thrust Jeyne Poole inside , bruised and shaking .  
`` They 're killing everyone , `` the steward 's daughter had shrieked at her .  
The Hound had broken down her door with a warhammer , she said .  
Sansa dried her own tears as she struggled to comfort her friend .  
That evening , some women brought her clothes from the Tower of the Hand , and some of Jeyne 's things as well , but they seemed nearly as frightened as Jeyne , and when she tried to talk to them , they fled from her as if she had the grey plague .  
The guards outside the door still refused to let them leave the room .  
`` Please , I need to speak to the queen again , '' Sansa told them , as she told everyone she saw that day .  
`` She 'll want to talk to me , I know she will .  
Tell her I want to see her , please .  
We 're to marry when we 're older . ''  
Jeyne asked , covering her ears .  
Sansa could not say how she knew it , yet she did .  
Or had they killed him too ?  
If only they would tell her what was happening ... That night Sansa dreamt of Joffrey on the throne , with herself seated beside him in a gown of woven gold .  
She had a crown on her head , and everyone she had ever known came before her , to bend the knee and say their courtesies .  
The next morning , the morning of the third day , Ser Boros Blount of the Kingsguard came to escort her to the queen .  
Sansa made herself smile at them pleasantly and bid them a good morning as she passed .  
It was the first time she had been allowed outside the chamber since Ser Arys Oakheart had led her there two mornings past .  
Sansa had expected that Ser Boros would escort her to the royal apartments , but instead he led her out of Maegor 's Holdfast .  
When Sansa peered down , she saw a body impaled on the huge iron spikes below .  
She averted her eyes quickly , afraid to ask , afraid to look too long , afraid he might be someone she knew .  
Sansa had hoped Joffrey might be with her .  
Lord Petyr Baelish sat on the queen 's left hand , Grand Maester Pycelle at the end of the table , while Lord Varys hovered over them , smelling flowery .  
All of them were clad in black , she realized with a feeling of dread .  
Cersei smiled to see her , and Sansa thought it was the sweetest and saddest smile she had ever seen .  
I 'm sorry that I could not send for you sooner .  
I trust my people have been taking good care of you ? ''  
`` Everyone has been very sweet and pleasant , Your Grace , thank you ever so much for asking , '' Sansa said politely .  
`` The gods only know what sort of tales she 's been filling Sansa 's head with . ''  
I promised her I 'd ask if she could see her father . ''  
Old Grand Maester Pycelle lowered his eyes .  
`` I wo n't have Sansa fretting needlessly .  
`` Do you take me for a fool ? ''  
`` Ser Boros , escort this girl to Lord Petyr 's apartments and instruct his people to keep her there until he comes for her .  
Tell her that Littlefinger will be taking her to see her father , that ought to calm her down .  
I want her gone before Sansa returns to her chamber . ''  
He bowed deeply , spun on his heel , and took his leave , his long white cloak stirring the air behind him .  
Why ca n't Ser Boros take her to him instead of Lord Petyr having to do it ? ''  
She had promised herself she would be a lady , gentle as the queen and as strong as her mother , the Lady Catelyn , but all of a sudden she was scared again .  
She has n't done anything wrong , she 's a good girl . ''  
Lord Baelish will see that Jeyne 's well taken care of , I promise you . ''  
Sansa seated herself beside the queen .  
Varys was wringing his soft hands together , Grand Maester Pycelle kept his sleepy eyes on the papers in front of him , but she could feel Littlefinger staring .  
Something about the way the small man looked at her made Sansa feel as though she had no clothes on .  
Goose Burnps pimpled her skin .  
I do hope you know how much Joffrey and I love you . ''  
`` I think of you almost as my own daughter .  
And I know the love you bear for Joffrey . ''  
`` I am afraid we have some grave news about your lord father .  
`` With my own ears , I heard Lord Eddard swear to our beloved King Robert that he would protect the young princes as if they were his own sons .  
`` We found this on the captain of your household guard , Sansa .  
The gods are kind , that he did not live to see it . ''  
How can I allow you to marry my son ? ''  
She had to wed Joffrey , they were betrothed , he was promised to her , she had even dreamed about it .  
It was n't fair to take him away from her on account of whatever her father might have done .  
`` Why else should you have come to me and told me of your father 's plan to send you away from us , if not for love ? ''  
`` Father would n't even give me leave to say farewell . ''  
She was the good girl , the obedient girl , but she had felt as wicked as Arya that morning , sneaking away from Septa Mordane , defying her lord father .  
She had never done anything so willful before , and she would never have done it then if she had n't loved Joffrey as much as she did .  
`` He was going to take me back to Winterfell and marry me to some hedge knight , even though it was Joff I wanted .  
I told him , but he would n't listen . ''  
The king could command Father to let her stay in King 's Landing and marry Prince Joffrey , Sansa knew he could , but the king had always frightened her .  
He was loud and rough-voiced and drunk as often as not , and he would probably have just sent her back to Lord Eddard , if they even let her see him .  
So she went to the queen instead , and poured out her heart , and Cersei had listened and thanked her sweetly ... only then Ser Arys had escorted her to the high room in Maegor 's Holdfast and posted guards , and a few hours later , the fighting had begun outside .  
I 'll be a queen just like you , I promise . ''  
`` A love so true and innocent , Your Grace , it would be cruel to deny it ... and yet , what can we do ?  
`` No , `` Sansa said , horrified .  
`` I 'm not , I 'd never ... I would n't betray Joffrey , I love him , I swear it , I do . ''  
`` She reminds me of the mother , not the father , '' Lord Petyr Baelish said quietly .  
I know he loves you with all his heart . ''  
`` And yet , I fear that Lord Varys and the Grand Maester have the right of it .  
I have only to remember how your sister set her wolf on my son . ''  
`` She has the traitor 's blood , not me .  
I 'm good , ask Septa Mordane , she 'll tell you , I only want to be Joffrey 's loyal and loving wife . ''  
She felt the weight of Cersei 's eyes as the queen studied her face .  
`` I believe you mean it , child . ''  
`` Child , do you know your letters ? ''  
Perhaps there is hope for you and Joffrey still ... '' `` What do you want me to do ? ''  
`` The word of your lord father 's treason will no doubt reach them soon .  
You must tell them how Lord Eddard betrayed his king . ''  
Sansa wanted Joffrey desperately , but she did not think she had the courage to do as the queen was asking .  
`` But he never ... I do n't ... Your Grace , I would n't know what to say ... '' The queen patted her hand .  
`` By the love you bear them , you must urge them to walk the path of wisdom . ''  
`` You must tell her that you are well and in our care , that we are treating you gently and seeing to your every want .  
Bid them to come to King 's Landing and pledge their fealty to Joffrey when he takes his throne .  
If they do that ... why , then we shall know that there is no taint in your blood , and when you come into the flower of your womanhood , you shall wed the king in the Great Sept of Baelor , before the eyes of gods and men . ''  
... wed the king ... The words made her breath come faster , yet still Sansa hesitated .  
`` You disappoint me , Sansa , '' the queen said , with eyes gone hard as stones .  
`` We 've told you of your father 's crimes .  
If you are truly as loyal as you say , why should you want to see him ? ''  
`` I ... I only meant Sansa felt her eyes grow wet .  
`` He 's not ... please , he has n't been ... hurt , or ... or ... `` `` Lord Eddard has not been harmed , '' the queen said .  
Sansa blinked back her tears .  
Joffrey was the king now , she thought .  
Her gallant prince would never hurt her father , no matter what he might have done .  
If she went to him and pleaded for mercy , she was certain he 'd listen .  
He had to listen , he loved her , even the queen said so .  
Joff would need to punish Father , the lords would expect it , but perhaps he could send him back to Winterfell , or exile him to one of the Free Cities across the narrow sea .  
Once she was queen , she could persuade Joff to bring Father back and grant him a pardon .  
Her Joffrey was good and kind , she knew it in her heart , but a king had to be stern with rebels .  
She had to make them understand , she had to !  
Joffrey will be so proud when I tell him what courage and good sense you 've shown here today . ''  
To her mother , the Lady Catelyn Stark , and to her brothers at Winterfell , and to her aunt and her grandfather as well , Lady Lysa Arryn of the Eyrie , and Lord Hoster Tully of Riverrun .  
Varys had her father 's seal .  
She warmed the pale white beeswax over a candle , poured it carefully , and watched as the eunuch stamped each letter with the direwolf of House Stark .  
Jeyne Poole and all her things were gone when Ser Mandon Moore returned Sansa to the high tower of Maegor 's Holdfast .  
No more weeping , she thought gratefully .  
Yet somehow it seemed colder with Jeyne gone , even after she 'd built a fire .  
She pulled a chair close to the hearth , took down one of her favorite books , and lost herself in the stories of Florian and Jonquil , of Lady Shella and the Rainbow Knight , of valiant Prince Aemon and his doomed love for his brother 's queen .  
It was not until later that night , as she was drifting off to sleep , that Sansa realized she had forgotten to ask about her sister .  
If he had taken me , it might be me lying here ... Jafer 's right wrist ended in the ruin of torn flesh and splintered bone left by Ghost'sjaws .  
He swung down from his garron , handing his reins to Jon .  
Jon led her off a few paces , fighting to keep her from bolting .  
Ghost had led the party here ; the pack of hounds had been useless .  
When Bass the kennelmaster had tried to get them to take the scent from the severed hand , they had gone wild , yowling and barking , fighting to get away .  
Even now they were snarling and whimpering by turns , pulling at their leashes while Chett cursed them for curs .  
It is only a wood , Jon told himself , and they 're only dead men .  
He had seen dead men before ... Last night he had dreamt the Winterfell dream again .  
When he turned he saw that the vaults were opening , one after the other .  
Even when Ghost leapt up on the bed to nuzzle at his face , he could not shake his deep sense of terror .  
Instead he had climbed the Wall and walked , restless , until he saw the light of the dawn off to the cast .  
I am a brother of the Night 's Watch now , not a frightened boy .  
So far he had not lurched off to the woods to retch , but he had not so much as glanced at the dead men either .  
`` Maester Aemon sent you to be his eyes , did n't he ?  
`` We have a dozen rangers with us , and the dogs , even Ghost .  
Slowly he swiveled his head .  
His eyes widened , but Jon held his arm so he could not turn away .  
Ser Jaremy shook his head .  
`` We do , but- '' `` This man wears a hunting horn . ''  
`` Must I suppose that he died without sounding it ?  
I do not have sufficient men to mount as many patrols as I should like ... and since Benjen was lost , we have stayed closer to the Wall than we were wont to do before , by your own command . ''  
`` Tell me how they died . ''  
Squatting beside the dead man he had named Jafer Flowers , Ser Jaremy grasped his head by the scalp .  
Jon could feel his breakfast churning in his belly , but he pressed his lips together and made himself look at the second body .  
Othor had been a big ugly man , and he made a big ugly corpse .  
Jon remembered Othor ; he had been the one bellowing the bawdy song as the rangers rode out .  
Even the thought made him feel foolish ; he was a man grown now , a black brother of the Night 's Watch , not the boy who 'd once sat at Old Nan 's feet with Bran and Robb and Arya .  
`` If Ben Stark had come under wildling attack a half day 's ride from Castle Black , he would have returned for more men , chased the killers through all seven hells and brought me back their heads . ''  
It had been so long , it seemed folly to cling to the hope that Ben Stark was still alive , but Jon Snow was nothing if not stubborn .  
`` It has been close on half a year since Benjen left us , my lord , '' Ser Jaremy went on .  
I 'd wager these two were the last survivors of his party , on their way back to us ... but the enemy caught them before they could reach the safety of the Wall .  
`` He soils his smallclothes at the sight of it , '' Chett shouted out , and the rangers laughed .  
`` You ... you can see where Ghost ... Jon 's direwolf ... you can see where he tore off that man 's hand , and yet ... the stump has n't bled , look ... '' He waved a hand .  
`` My father ... L-lord Randyll , he , he made me watch him dress animals sometimes , when ... after ... '' Sam shook his head from side to side , his chins quivering .  
Later ... later it would be clotted , like a ... a jelly , thick and ... and ... '' He looked as though he was going to be sick .  
`` This man ... look at the wrist , it 's all ... crusty ... dry ... like ... `` Jon saw at once what Sam meant .  
`` Look , there 's ... there 's no maggots or ... or ... worms or anything ... they 've been lying here in the woods , but they ... they have n't been chewed or eaten by animals ... only Ghost ... otherwise they 're ... they 're ... '' `` Untouched , '' Jon said softly .  
Finally she lunged at him .  
Might be someone brought 'ern and left 'ern for us .  
`` And might be I 'm a fool , but I do n't know that Othor never had no blue eyes afore . ''  
For a moment all they heard was Sam 's heavy breathing and the wet sound of Dywen sucking on his teeth .  
I want Maester Aemon to have a look at them .  
They wrapped the dead men in cloaks , but when Hake and Dywen tried to tie one onto a horse , the animal went mad , screaming and rearing , lashing out with its hooves , even biting at Ketter when he ran to help .  
Use all the men you have , and if you do not have enough , borrow hunters and foresters from the stewards .  
If Ben and the others are out here , dead or alive , I will have them found .  
The Wall was weeping copiously , had been weeping for days , and sometimes Jon even imagined it was shrinking .  
Jon had been a babe in arms when it began .  
He found himself glancing at every shadow with unease .  
Unbidden , he thought back on the tales that Old Nan used to tell them , when he was a boy at Winterfell .  
In that darkness , the Others came riding , she used to say , dropping her voice lower and lower .  
Cold and dead they were , and they hated iron and fire and the touch of the sun , and every living creature with hot blood in its veins .  
They fed their dead servants on the flesh of human children ... When he caught his first glimpse of the Wall looming above the tops of an ancient gnarled oak , Jon was vastly relieved .  
Jon saw the start of fright on Sam 's face as he lumbered up on his mare ; doubtless he thought he was in trouble .  
`` You 're fat but you 're not stupid , boy , '' the Old Bear said gruffly .  
Sam blushed a vivid crimson and tripped over his own tongue as he tried to stammer out a courtesy .  
When they emerged from under the trees , Mormont spurred his tough little garron to a trot .  
Ghost came streaking out from the woods to meet them , licking his chops , his muzzle red from prey .  
High above , the men on the Wall saw the column approaching .  
Curiously , Marsh glanced at Jon before he answered .  
Ser Alliser Thorne was drilling his boys in the yard , but he broke off to stare at Jon , a faint half smile on his lips .  
Jon saw that Mormont 's horse was fed and watered and groomed before he took care of his own .  
Afterward he sought out his friends .  
Grenn and Toad were on watch , but he found Pyp in the common hall .  
Pyp lowered his voice .  
Robert Baratheon had looked old and fat when he visited Winterfell , yet he 'd seemed hale enough , and there 'd been no talk of illness .  
Jon wondered if Joffrey would keep his father as the King 's Hand .  
I will ask him about my mother , he resolved .  
I am a man now , it is past time he told me .  
Even if she was a whore , I do n't care , I want to know .  
`` I heard Hake say the dead men were your uncle 's , '' Pyp said .  
`` I should see if the Old Bear has need of me . ''  
He walked to the Lord Commander 's Tower alone , with a curious sense of apprehension .  
The brothers on guard eyed him solemnly as he approached .  
He climbed the tower steps briskly .  
He wants wine or a fire in his hearth , that 's all , he told himself .  
`` Do n't you believe it , I just fed him , '' the Old Bear growled .  
Mormont lifted his eyes from the letter to stare at Jon .  
`` You heard me . ''  
`` It 's my father , is n't it ? ''  
`` I wo n't lie to you , it 's grievous news .  
It is said he plotted with Robert 's brothers to deny the throne to Prince Joffrey . ''  
How could they think his father was a traitor , had they all gone mad ?  
Will they kill him ? ''  
He must be allowed to take the black and join us here .  
Gods knows , we need men of Lord Eddard 's ability . ''  
Jon knew that other men accused of treason had been allowed to redeem their honor on the Wall in days past .  
It would be a monstrous injustice to strip him of Winterfell and force him to take the black , and yet if it meant his life ... And would Joffrey allow it ?  
He remembered the prince at Winterfell , the way he 'd mocked Robb and Ser Rodrik in the yard .  
Jon himself he had scarcely even noticed ; bastards were beneath even his contempt .  
`` A boy king ... I imagine he 'll listen to his mother .  
He 's the lad 's uncle , and he saw our need when he visited us .  
Arya and Sansa , they were with my father , do you know- '' `` Pycelle makes no mention of them , but doubtless they 'll be treated gently .  
I will ask about them when I write . ''  
Mormont shook his head .  
If ever the realm needed a strong king ... there are dark days and cold nights ahead , I feel it in my bones ... '' He gave Jon a long shrewd look .  
He 's my father , Jon wanted to say , but he knew that Mormont would not want to hear it .  
He made himself take another sip of wine .  
`` Black. `` Mormont took no notice .  
When Jon did not answer , the old man finished his wine and said , `` You 're free to go .  
On the morrow you can help me write that letter . ''  
The next he knew , he was descending the tower steps , thinking , This is my father , my sisters , how can it be none of my concern ?  
They know , Jon realized .  
The wind was rising , and it seemed colder in the yard than it had when he 'd gone in .  
Jon could not have said where he walked , what he did , who he spoke with .  
Ghost was with him , he knew that much .  
The girls do not even have that much , he thought .  
Their wolves might have kept them safe , but Lady is dead and Nymeria 's lost , they 're all alone .  
Jon could hear it skirling against the Wall and over the icy battlements as he went to the common hall for the evening meal .  
When he spooned an extra portion onto Jon 's plate and gave him the crusty heel of the bread , he knew what it meant .  
`` It 's a lie , we all know it 's a lie , even Grenn knows it 's a lie , '' Pyp chimed in .  
Grenn nodded , and Sam clasped Jon 's hand , `` You 're my brother now , so he 's my father too , '' the fat boy said .  
The weirwoods were beyond the Wall , yet he knew Sam meant what he said .  
They are my brothers , he thought .  
As much as Robb and Bran and Rickon ... And then he heard the laughter , sharp and cruel as a whip , and the voice of Ser Alliser Thorne .  
Pyp made a grab for him , but he wrenched his leg away , and then he was sprinting down the table and kicking the bowl from Ser Alliser 's hand .  
He lunged at Ser Alliser 's face with the dagger , slashing at those cold onyx eyes , but Sam threw himself between them and before Jon could get around him , Pyp was on his back clinging like a monkey , and Grenn was grabbing his arm while Toad wrenched the knife from his fingers .  
Later , much later , after they had marched him back to his sleeping cell , Mormont came down to see him , raven on his shoulder .  
`` I told you not to do anything stupid , boy , '' the Old Bear said .  
Mormont shook his head , disgusted .  
They took his knife and his sword and told him he was not to leave his cell until the high officers met to decide what was to be done with him .  
And then they placed a guard outside his door to make certain he obeyed .  
His friends were not allowed to see him , but the Old Bear did relent and permit him Ghost , so he was not utterly alone .  
The flame flickered and swayed , the shadows moved around him , the room seemed to grow darker and colder .  
I will not sleep tonight , Jon thought .  
When he woke , his legs were stiff and cramped and the candle had long since burned out .  
`` It 's me , Ghost , '' he murmured , trying not to sound afraid .  
The guard , he thought , they left a man to guard my door , Ghost smells him through the door , that 's all it is .  
Slowly , Jon pushed himself to his feet .  
He was shivering uncontrollably , wishing he still had a sword .  
He grabbed the handle and pulled it inward .  
It ca n't be , Jon told himself .  
This is the Lord Commander 's Tower , it 's guarded day and night , this could n't happen , it 's a dream , I 'm having a nightmare .  
The heft of steel in his fist made him bolder .  
He moved up the steps , Ghost padding silently before him .  
Suddenly he heard the shriek of Mormont 's raven .  
`` Corn , corn , corn , corn , corn , corn. `` Ghost bounded ahead , and Jon came scrambling after .  
Jon stopped in the doorway , blade in hand , giving his eyes a moment to adjust .  
Then he saw it , a shadow in the shadows , sliding toward the inner door that led to Mormont 's sleeping cell , a man-shape all in black , cloaked and hooded ... but beneath the hood , its eyes shone with an icy blue radiance ... Ghost leapt .  
Mormont 's raven was flapping overhead , screaming , `` Corn , corn , corn , corn. `` Jon felt as blind as Maester Aemon .  
Keeping the wall to his back , he slid toward the window and ripped down the curtain .  
He threw himself forward , shouting , bringing down the longsword with all his weight behind it .  
The smell that engulfed him was so queer and cold he almost gagged .  
The hooded man lifted his pale moon face , and Jon slashed at it without hesitation .  
Gods , he 's dead , he 's dead , I saw him dead .  
Shouting with revulsion , Jon pried the fingers off his leg with the point of his sword and flipped the thing away .  
One-armed , face cut near in half , it seemed to feel nothing .  
Ghost pounced and got it between his teeth .  
Dead Othor slammed into him , knocking him off his feet .  
When he opened his mouth to scream , the wight jammed its black corpse fingers into Jon 's mouth .  
Gagging , he tried to shove it off , but the dead man was too heavy .  
Its hand forced itself farther down his throat , icy cold , choking him .  
Ghost had it again .  
He watched as the direwolf buried his teeth in the wight 's gut and began to rip and tear .  
He watched , only half conscious , for a long moment before he finally remembered to look for his sword ... and saw Lord Mormont , naked and groggy from sleep , standing in the doorway with an oil lamp in hand .  
Staggering to his feet , he kicked the arm away and snatched the lamp from the Old Bear 's fingers .  
Metal crunched , glass shattered , oil spewed , and the hangings went up in a great whoosh of flame .  
The heat of it on his face was sweeter than any kiss Jon had ever known .  
The direwolf wrenched free and came to him as the wight struggled to rise , dark snakes spilling from the great wound in its belly .  
Jon plunged his hand into the flames , grabbed a fistful of the burning drapes , and whipped them at the dead man .  
Let it burn , he prayed as the cloth smothered the corpse , gods , please , please , let it burn .  
Bran watched them come from a guard turret atop the outer wall , peering through Maester Luwin 's bronze far-eye while perched on Hodor 's shoulders .  
Lord Rickard himself led them , his sons Harrion Karstark and Eddard and Torrhen Karstark riding beside him beneath night-black banners emblazoned with the white sunburst of their House .  
Old Nan said they had Stark blood in them , going back hundreds of years , but they did not look like Starks to Bran .  
They were the last , he knew .  
Bran yearned to ride out among them , to see the winter houses full to bursting , the jostling crowds in the market square every morning , the streets rutted and torn by wheel and hoof .  
Our lady mother would skin me for a pelt if I let you put yourself at risk . ''  
He was using the voice of Robb the Lord when he said it ; Bran knew that meant there was no appeal .  
A year ago , before , he would have visited the town even if it meant climbing over the walls by himself .  
And soon enough he learned the faces too , when the lords and their sons and knights retainer came to Winterfell to feast .  
Some of the lords bannermen gave him queer hard stares as he sat there , as if they wondered by what right a green boy should be placed above them , and him a cripple too .  
Bran asked Maester Luwin as Lord Karstark and his sons rode through the gates in the outer wall .  
`` Robb will feast him tonight . ''  
Bran felt as miserable as he sounded .  
It felt queer to look down on him this way , when he 'd spent his whole life looking up at him , but when you sat on Hodor 's back you looked down on everyone .  
`` Bran , your lord brother will not have time to see you now .  
He must greet Lord Karstark and his sons and make them welcome . ''  
He put his hand on Hodor 's shoulder .  
Hodor hummed tunelessly as he went down hand under hand , Bran bouncing against his back in the wicker seat that Maester Luwin had fashioned for him .  
Luwin had gotten the idea from the baskets the women used to carry firewood on their backs ; after that it had been a simple matter of cutting legholes and attaching some new straps to spread Bran 's weight more evenly .  
It was not as good as riding Dancer , but there were places Dancer could not go , and this did not shame Bran the way it did when Hodor carried him in his arms like a baby .  
Hodor seemed to like it too , though with Hodor it was hard to tell .  
Sometimes Hodor forgot that he had Bran on his back , and that could be painful when he went through a door .  
For near a fortnight there had been so many comings and goings that Robb ordered both portcullises kept up and the drawbridge down between them , even in the dead of night .  
Hodor trotted along beside them , smiling to himself , his boots thudding against the wood of the drawbridge .  
The riders gave them queer looks as they went by , and once Bran heard someone guffaw .  
He refused to let it trouble him .  
Let them mock , Bran thought .  
No one mocked him in his bedchamber , but he would not live his life in bed .  
As they passed beneath the gatehouse portcullis , Bran put two fingers into his mouth and whistled .  
The scent of the direwolves sent horses into a frenzy of fear if they were not accustomed to it , but they 'd quiet soon enough once Summer was gone .  
The armory doors were open , and Bran glimpsed Mikken at his forge , his hammer ringing as sweat dripped off his bare chest .  
Bran had never seen as many strangers in all his years , not even when King Robert had come to visit Father .  
He tried not to flinch as Hodor ducked through a low door .  
They walked down a long dim hallway , Summer padding easily beside them .  
Bran reached up over his head and pulled himself out of his seat , drawing the dead weight of his legs up through the holes in the wicker basket .  
He hung for a moment , dangling , the dark red leaves brushing against his face , until Hodor lifted him and lowered him to the smooth stone beside the water .  
Hodor hated cold water , and would fight like a treed wildcat when threatened with soap , but he would happily immerse himself in the hottest pool and sit for hours , giving a loud burp to echo the spring whenever a bubble rose from the murky green depths to break upon the surface .  
Bran had always liked the godswood , even before , but of late he found himself drawn to it more and more .  
Even the heart tree no longer scared him the way it used to .  
The gods were looking over him , he told himself ; the old gods , gods of the Starks and the First Men and the children of the forest , his father 's gods .  
He felt safe in their sight , and the deep silence of the trees helped him think .  
Bran had been thinking a lot since his fall ; thinking , and dreaming , and talking with the gods .  
`` Please make it so Robb wo n't go away , '' he prayed softly .  
`` Please make him stay .  
Or if he has to go , bring him home safe , with Mother and Father and the girls .  
And make it ... make it so Rickon understands . ''  
His baby brother had been wild as a winter storm since he learned Robb was riding off to war , weeping and angry by turns .  
He 'd refused to eat , cried and screamed for most of a night , even punched Old Nan when she tried to sing him to sleep , and the next day he 'd vanished .  
Robb had set half the castle searching for him , and when at last they 'd found him down in the crypts , Rickon had slashed at them with a rusted iron sword he 'd snatched from a dead king 's hand , and Shaggydog had come slavering out of the darkness like a green-eyed demon .  
It had taken Robb himself and Grey Wind to bring him to bay .  
Farlen had the black wolf chained up in the kennels now , and Rickon cried all the more for being without him .  
Maester Luwin counseled Robb to remain at Winterfell , and Bran pleaded with him too , for his own sake as much as Rickon 's , but his brother only shook his head stubbornly and said , `` I do n't want to go .  
Someone had to go , to hold the Neck and help the Tullys against the Lannisters , Bran could understand that , but it did not have to be Robb .  
Maester Luwin urged him to do just that , but Robb would not hear of it .  
`` My lord father would never have sent men off to die while he huddled like a craven behind the walls of Winterfell , '' he said , all Robb the Lord .  
Robb seemed half a stranger to Bran now , transformed , a lord in truth , though he had not yet seen his sixteenth name day .  
Stout , grey-haired Maege Mormont , dressed in mail like a man , told Robb bluntly that he was young enough to be her grandson , and had no business giving her commands ... but as it happened , she had a granddaughter she would be willing to have him marry .  
Softspoken Lord Cerwyn had actually brought his daughter with him , a plump , homely maid of thirty years who sat at her father 's left hand and never lifted her eyes from her plate .  
Jovial Lord Hornwood had no daughters , but he did bring gifts , a horse one day , a haunch of venison the next , a silver-chased hunting horn the day after , and he asked nothing in return ... nothing but a certain holdfast taken from his grandfather , and hunting rights north of a certain ridge , and leave to dam the White Knife , if it please the lord .  
Robb answered each of them with cool courtesy , much as Father might have , and somehow he bent them to his will .  
And when Lord Umber , who was called the Greatjon Umber by his men and stood as tall as Hodor and twice as wide , threatened to take his forces home if he was placed behind the Hornwoods or the Cerwyns in the order of march , Robb told him he was welcome to do so .  
When Hallis Mollen moved to restrain him , he knocked him to the floor , kicked over a table , and unsheathed the biggest , ugliest greatsword that Bran had ever seen .  
Yet Robb only said a quiet word , and in a snarl and the blink of an eye Lord Umber was on his back , his sword spinning on the floor three feet away and his hand dripping blood where Grey Wind had bitten off two fingers .  
Yet that very night , his brother came to Bran 's bedchamber pale and shaken , after the fires had burned low in the Great Hall .  
`` I thought he was going to kill me , '' Robb confessed .  
`` Did you see the way he threw down Hal , like he was no bigger than Rickon ?  
Lord Roose never says a word , he only looks at me , and all I can think of is that room they have in the Dreadfort , where the Boltons hang the skins of their enemies . ''  
`` Lord Cerwyn means to take his daughter south with us .  
I wish ... I wish Father was here ... '' That was the one thing they could agree on , Bran and Rickon and Robb the Lord ; they all wished Father was here .  
Arya and Sansa had been murdered by the Hound .  
Mother had killed Tyrion the Imp and hung his body from the walls of Riverrun .  
Lord Tywin Lannister was marching on the Eyrie , burning and slaughtering as he went .  
When the raven came , bearing a letter marked with Father 's own seal and written in Sansa 's hand , the cruel truth seemed no less incredible .  
Bran would never forget the look on Robb 's face as he stared at their sister 's words .  
She says we must be loyal , and when she marries Joffrey she will plead with him to spare our lord father 's life . ''  
`` She lost her wolf , '' he said , weakly , remembering the day when four of his father 's guardsmen had returned from the south with Lady 's bones .  
Summer and Grey Wind and Shaggydog had begun to howl before they crossed the drawbridge , in voices drawn and desolate .  
It was there they buried Lady , while her brothers stalked between the graves like restless shadows .  
She had gone south , and only her bones had returned .  
And Father had gone south , with Arya and Sansa , and Jory and Hullen and Fat Tom and the rest , and later Mother and Ser Rodrik had gone , and they had n't come back either .  
And Theon too , I suppose .  
Watch them and keep them safe , if it please you , gods .  
Help them defeat the Lannisters and save Father and bring them home . ''  
Bran lifted his head .  
Bran wrapped his arms around him .  
He had not seen Osha since they 'd taken her captive in the wolfswood , though he knew she 'd been set to working in the kitchens .  
It made her look more womanly , that and the simple dress of brown roughspun they 'd given her when they took her mail and leather .  
`` Gage lets me have my prayers from time to time , when I feel the need , and I let him do as he likes under my skirt , when he feels the need .  
I like the smell of flour on his hands , and he 's gentler than Stiv . ''  
`` Tell me what you meant , about hearing the gods . ''  
`` You asked them and they 're answering .  
She seated herself across the pool from him , clinking faintly as she moved .  
Mikken had fixed iron manacles to her ankles , with a heavy chain between them ; she could walk , so long as she kept her strides small , but there was no way for her to run , or climb , or mount a horse .  
They hear you talking .  
Your lord brother will get no help from them , not where he 's going .  
How can they watch your brother when they have no eyes ? ''  
Maybe Osha was n't hearing them right .  
He cocked his head and tried to listen again .  
He thought he could hear the sadness now , but nothing more than that .  
Bran heard muffled footfalls and a low humming , and Hodor came blundering out of the trees , naked and smiling .  
`` Hodor , you forgot your clothes . ''  
`` He has giant 's blood in him , or I 'm the queen . ''  
He says they 're all dead , like the children of the forest .  
`` Let Maester Luwin ride beyond the Wall , '' Osha said .  
Fierce things they are too , all hair and teeth , and the wives have beards like their husbands , so there 's no telling them apart .  
The women take human men for lovers , and it 's from them the half bloods come .  
It goes harder on the women they catch .  
`` But you do n't know what I mean , do you , boy ? ''  
`` Yes I do , '' Bran insisted .  
He understood about mating ; he had seen dogs in the yard , and watched a stallion mount a mare .  
He walked back the way he had come , ducking under a low-hanging tree limb .  
He was awfully big , Bran thought as he watched him go .  
he asked Osha , uncertainly .  
I tried to tell your brother when he asked his questions , him and your maester and that smiley boy Greyjoy .  
The cold winds are rising , and men go out from their fires and never come back ... or if they do , they 're not men no more , but only wights , with blue eyes and cold black hands .  
Why do you think I run south with Stiv and Hali and the rest of them fools ?  
Mance thinks he 'll fight , the brave sweet stubborn man , like the white walkers were no more than rangers , but what does he know ?  
He can call himself King-beyond-the-Wall beyond-the-Wall all he likes , but he 's still just another old black crow who flew down from the Shadow Tower .  
I was born up there , child , like my mother and her mother before her and her mother before her , born of the Free Folk .  
`` I tried to tell your lordling brother .  
Robb will listen to me , I know he will . ''  
`` Will he now ?  
You tell him he 's bound on marching the wrong way .  
You hear me ? ''  
They were already at their places when Hodor carried Bran into the hall on his back , and knelt beside the high seat .  
`` I welcome you to our fires , '' Bran said stiffly , `` and offer you meat and mead in honor of our friendship . ''  
Harrion Karstark , the oldest of Lord Rickard 's sons , bowed , and his brothers after him , yet as they settled back in their places he heard the younger two talking in low voices , over the clatter of wine cups .  
Broken Arm of Dorne , Bran thought bitterly as he clutched his knife .  
`` You are a surpassing clever boy when you work at it , Bran .  
I can teach you the speech of ravens , and how to build a castle , and the way a sailor steers his ship by the stars .  
I can teach you to measure the days and mark the seasons , and at the Citadel in Oldtown they can teach you a thousand things more .  
That reminded him of the promise he had made to Osha in the godswood , so he told Luwin what she had said .  
`` The wildling woman could give Old Nan lessons in telling tales , I think , '' he said when Bran was done .  
`` I will talk with her again if you like , but it would be best if you did not trouble your brother with this folly .  
It 's the Lannisters who hold your lord father , Bran , not the children of the forest . ''  
And two days later , as a red dawn broke across a windswept sky , Bran found himself in the yard beneath the gatehouse , strapped atop Dancer as he said his farewells to his brother .  
`` You are the lord in Winterfell now , '' Robb told him .  
`` You must take my place , as I took Father 's , until we come home . ''  
he 'd screamed when Bran had asked if he did n't want to say farewell to Robb .  
`` He says no one ever comes back . ''  
And I 'll bring back Father , I promise . ''  
He wheeled his courser around and trotted away .  
Theon Greyjoy and the Greatjon fell in on either side of Robb , and their knights formed up in a double column behind them , steel- tipped lances glinting in the sun .  
Uncomfortably , he remembered Osha 's words .  
He 's marching the wrong way , he thought .  
For an instant he wanted to gallop after him and shout a warning , but when Robb vanished beneath the portcullis , the moment was gone .  
The foot soldiers and townsfolk were cheering Robb as he rode past , Bran knew ; cheering for Lord Stark , for the Lord of Winterfell on his great stallion , with his cloak streaming and Grey Wind racing beside him .  
He might be the lord in Winterfell while his brother and father were gone , but he was still Bran the Broken .  
When he had taken his pleasure , Khal Drogo rose from their sleeping mats to tower above her .  
Dany propped herself on an elbow to look up at him , so tall and magnificent .  
She loved his hair especially .  
It had never been cut ; he had never known defeat .  
Khal Drogo did not want to hear it .  
If only she could get him onto a ship ... After the khal and his bloodriders had ridden off with their bows , Dany summoned her handmaids .  
Her body felt so fat and ungainly now that she welcomed the help of their strong arms and deft hands , whereas before she had often been uncomfortable with the way they fussed and fluttered about her .  
As Doreah combed out her hair , she sent Jhiqui to find Ser Jorah Mormont .  
He talks of leading his khalasar east after Rhaego is born , to plunder the lands around the Jade Sea . ''  
If he thinks of them at all , no doubt he thinks of islands , a few small cities clinging to rocks in the manner of Lorath or Lys , surrounded by stormy seas .  
`` Please , help me make him understand . ''  
She had never seen the Seven Kingdoms either , no more than Drogo , yet she felt as though she knew them from all the tales her brother had told her .  
Viserys had promised her a thousand times that he would take her back one day , but he was dead now and his promises had died with him .  
We will go home , I promise you . ''  
Ser Jorah had his Bear Island , but what was home to her ?  
When she looked at the crones of the dosh khaleen , was she looking at her future ?  
`` Irri , have them prepare a litter ... `` I shall tell your khas , '' Ser Jorah said , withdrawing .  
If Khal Drogo had been with her , Dany would have ridden her silver .  
Among the Dothraki , mothers stayed on horseback almost up to the moment of birth , and she did not want to seem weak in her husband 's eyes .  
If I were not the blood of the dragon , she thought wistfully , this could be my home .  
She was khaleesi , she had a strong man and a swift horse , handmaids to serve her , warriors to keep her safe , an honored place in the dosh khaleen awaiting her when she grew old ... and in her womb grew a son who would one day bestride the world .  
A hundred merchants and traders were unloading their goods and setting up in stalls when they arrived , yet even so the great market seemed hushed and deserted compared to the teeming bazaars that Dany remembered from Pentos and the other Free Cities .  
The caravans made their way to Vaes Dothrak from east and west not so much to sell to the Dothraki as to trade with each other , Ser Jorah had explained .  
The riders let them come and go unmolested , so long as they observed the peace of the sacred city , did not profane the Mother of Mountains or the Womb of the World , and honored the crones of the dosh khaleen with the traditional gifts of salt , silver , and seed .  
Dany liked the strangeness of the Eastern Market too , with all its queer sights and sounds and smells .  
She enjoyed watching all the people too : dark solemn Asshai'i and tall pale Qartheen , the bright-eyed men of Yi Ti in monkey-tail hats , warrior maids from Bayasabhad , Shamyriana , and Kayakayanaya with iron rings in their nipples and rubies in their cheeks , even the dour and frightening Shadow Men , who covered their arms and legs and chests with tattoos and hid their faces behind masks .  
As Irri and Jhiqui helped her from her litter , she sniffed , and recognized the sharp odors of garlic and pepper , scents that reminded Dany of days long gone in the alleys of Tyrosh and Myr and brought a fond smile to her face .  
Across the aisle , a fat cloth trader from Yi Ti was haggling with a Pentoshi over the price of some green dye , the monkey tail on his hat swaying back and forth as he shook his head .  
`` It was so alive there , all the people shouting and laughing , so many wonderful things to look at ... though we seldom had enough coin to buy anything ... well , except for a sausage now and again , or honeyfingers ... do they have honeyfingers in the Seven Kingdoms , the kind they bake in Tyrosh ? ''  
`` If you would pardon me for a time , I will seek out the captain and see if he has letters for us . ''  
I 'll help you find him . ''  
Curious , Dany thought as she watched him stride off through the throngs .  
Perhaps Ser Jorah meant to find a woman after he met with the merchant captain .  
Whores frequently traveled with the caravans , she knew , and some men were queerly shy about their couplings .  
Her handmaids trailed along as Dany resumed her stroll through the market .  
Delighted with her discovery , Dany insisted the others join her for a sausage .  
`` They taste different than I remember , '' Dany said after her first few bites .  
`` In Pentos , I make them with pork , '' the old woman said , `` but all my pigs died on the Dothraki sea .  
These are made of horsemeat , Khaleesi , but I spice them the same . ''  
Dany felt disappointed , but Quaro liked his sausage so well he decided to have another one , and Rakharo had to outdo him and eat three more , belching loudly .  
`` You have not laughed since your brother the Khal Rhaggat was crowned by Drogo , '' said Irri .  
A birdseller taught a green-and-red parrot to say her name , and Dany laughed again , yet still refused to take him .  
She did take a dozen flasks of scented oils , the perfumes of her childhood ; she had only to close her eyes and sniff them and she could see the big house with the red door once more .  
When Doreah looked longingly at a fertility charm at a magician 's booth , Dany took that too and gave it to the handmaid , thinking that now she should find something for Irri and Jhiqui as well .  
Whites from Lys , Tyroshi pear brandy , firewine , pepperwine , the pale green nectars of Myr .  
Smokeberry browns and Andalish sours , I have them , I have them . ''  
When Dany paused before his stall , he bowed low .  
I have a sweet red from Dorne , my lady , it sings of plums and cherries and rich dark oak .  
When she spoke , he gaped at her in astonishment .  
`` My speech may be Tyroshi , and my garb Dothraki , but I am of Westeros , of the Sunset Kingdoms , '' Dany told him .  
`` You have the honor to address Daenerys of the House Targaryen , Daenerys Stormborn , khaleesi of the riding men and princess of the Seven Kingdoms . ''  
Please , let me give you a cask . ''  
Khal Drogo 's visits to the Free Cities had given him a taste for good wine , and Dany knew that such a noble vintage would please him .  
`` You honor me , ser , '' she murmured sweetly .  
`` Khal Drogo and I will share it together .  
The wineseller beamed as the Dothraki hefted the cask .  
She did not realize that Ser Jorah had returned until she heard the knight say , `` No. `` His voice was strange , brusque .  
`` If you do n't open it , I 'll crack it open with your head . ''  
He carried no weapons here in the sacred city , save his hands-yet his hands were enough , big , hard , dangerous , his knuckles covered with coarse dark hairs .  
Jhogo reached for the whip coiled at his belt , but Dany stopped him with a light touch on the arm .  
`` Do as Ser Jorah says , '' she said .  
He filled two thimble-sized tasting cups , pouring so deftly he did not spill a drop .  
`` You taste it first . ''  
`` Empty the cup , or I will tell them to hold you down while Ser Jorah pours the whole cask down your throat . ''  
The wineseller shrugged , reached for the cup ... and grabbed the cask instead , flinging it at her with both hands .  
Ser Jorah bulled into her , knocking her out of the way .  
Dany stumbled and lost her feet .  
`` No , `` she screamed , thrusting her hands out to break her fall ... and Doreah caught her by the arm and wrenched her backward , so she landed on her legs and not her belly .  
Quaro reached for an arakh that was not there as the blond man slammed him aside .  
He seemed to know what had happened without a word being spoken .  
`` His goods I gift to you as well , Princess , '' the merchant captain went on .  
Doreah and Jhiqui helped Dany back to her feet .  
`` I did not know , Khaleesi , not until the man refused to drink , but once I read Magister Illyrio 's letter , I feared . ''  
Best not to talk of it here . ''  
The taste in her mouth was one she had known before : fear .  
He must have sensed her fright , for he moved restlessly inside her .  
Dany stroked the swell of her belly gently , wishing she could reach him , touch him , soothe him .  
Under the hollow hummock of earth that was her home in Vaes Dothrak , Dany ordered them to leave her-all but Ser Jorah .  
The Usurper owes Drogo a lordship . ''  
She hugged herself protectively .  
She would not weep , she decided .  
The Usurper has woken the dragon now , she told herself ... and her eyes went to the dragon 's eggs resting in their nest of dark velvet .  
She heard her own voice saying , `` Ser Jorah , light the brazier . ''  
The knight looked at her strangely .  
I ... I have a chill .  
When the coals were afire , Dany sent Ser Jorah from her .  
This is madness , she told herself as she lifted the black-and-scarlet egg from the velvet .  
It will only crack and Burn , and it 's so beautiful , Ser Jorah will call me a fool if I ruin it , and yet , and yet ... Cradling the egg with both hands , she carried it to the fire and pushed it down amongst the burning coals .  
As she stepped back from the brazier , the breath trembled in her throat .  
She watched until the coals had turned to ashes .  
Your brother Rhaegar was the last dragon , Ser Jorah had said .  
A thousand thousand years ago they had been alive , but now they were only pretty rocks .  
The khal laughed as he swung down off his stallion and showed her the scars on his leg where the hrakkar had raked him through his leggings .  
When Dany told him what had happened at the market , all laughter stopped , and Khal Drogo grew very quiet .  
Finally he said , `` This seller of poisons ran from the moon of my life .  
Jhogo , Jorah the Andal , to each of you I say , choose any horse you wish from my herds , and it is yours .  
I make this gift to you for what you did .  
`` And to Rhaego son of Drogo , the stallion who will mount the world , to him I also pledge a gift .  
To him I will give this iron chair his mother 's father sat in .  
His voice rose , and he lifted his fist to the sky .  
`` I will take my khalasar west to where the world ends , and ride the wooden horses across the black salt water as no khal has done before .  
I will rape their women , take their children as slaves , and bring their broken gods back to Vaes Dothrak to bow down beneath the Mother of Mountains .  
This I vow , I , Drogo son of Bharbo .  
This I swear before the Mother of Mountains , as the stars look down in witness . ''  
Khal Drogo led them on his great red stallion , with Daenerys beside him on her silver .  
As she rode , he ran after her , barefoot and stumbling .  
It was too far to make out the banners clearly , but even through the drifting fog she could see that they were white , with a dark smudge in their center that could only be the direwolf of Stark , grey upon its icy field .  
When she saw it with her own eyes , Catelyn reined up her horse and bowed her head in thanks .  
`` Let us not keep them waiting any longer , ser . ''  
His `` boys '' were both older than Catelyn , and she might have wished that they did not take after their father quite so closely .  
Ser Wendel , the younger boy , would have been the fattest man she 'd ever known , had she only neglected to meet his father and brother .  
Yet she liked them well enough ; they had gotten her to Robb , as their father had vowed , and nothing else mattered .  
My son is leading a host to war , she thought , still only half believing it .  
Ser Wylis called a halt there , and remained behind with his men to see the fires laid and the horses tended , while his brother Wendel rode on with Catelyn and her uncle to present their father 's respects to their liege lord .  
It fell away slowly beneath them as they rode past smoky peat fires , lines of horses , and wagons heavy-laden with hardbread and salt beef .  
Catelyn recognized the banner , the bull moose of the Hornwoods , brown on its dark orange field .  
Just beyond , through the mists , she glimpsed the walls and towers of Moat Cailin ... or what remained of them .  
`` I know how it looks , Uncle .  
I thought the same the first time I saw it , but Ned assured me that this ruin is more formidable than it seems .  
Last I looked , I was southron myself . ''  
That was where Robb had made his seat .  
Catelyn made for it , with Ser Brynden and Ser Wendel behind her , their horses stepping slowly down the log-andplank road that had been laid across the green-and-black fields of mud .  
She found her son surrounded by his father 's lords bannermen , in a drafty hall with a peat fire smoking in a black hearth .  
At first he did not notice her ... but his wolf did .  
The great grey beast was lying near the fire , but when Catelyn entered he lifted his head , and his golden eyes met hers .  
The lords fell silent one by one , and Robb looked up at the sudden quiet and saw her .  
Catelyn wanted to run to him , to kiss his sweet brow , to wrap him in her arms and hold him so tightly that he would never come to harm ... but here in front of his lords , she dared not .  
So she held herself at the far end of the basalt slab they were using for a table .  
The direwolf got to his feet and padded across the room to where she stood .  
`` I like it . ''  
`` It makes you look like my brother Edmure . ''  
Grey Wind nipped at her fingers , playful , and trotted back to his place by the fire .  
Ser Helman Tallhart was the first to follow the direwolf across the room to pay his respects , kneeling before her and pressing his brow to her hand .  
The Glovers followed , Galbart and Robett , and Greatjon Umber , and the rest , one by one .  
`` I had not looked to see you here , my lady , '' he said as he knelt .  
You know his son , Ser Wendel . ''  
And you , Ser Wendel , I am glad to have you here .  
I have named him castellan and commanded him to hold Winterfell till our return .  
We 'll shove our swords up Tywin Lannister 's bunghole soon enough , begging your pardons , and then it 's on to the Red Keep to free Ned . ''  
Roose Bolton , Lord of the Dreadfort , had a small voice , yet when he spoke larger men quieted to listen .  
Have you brought him to us ?  
`` I did hold Tyrion Lannister , but no longer , '' Catelyn was forced to admit .  
She ought not to be so open in her contempt , she knew , but her parting from the Eyrie had not been pleasant .  
She had offered to take Lord Robert with her , to foster him at Winterfell for a few years .  
The company of other boys would do him good , she had dared to suggest .  
The lords were anxious to question her further , but Catelyn raised a hand .  
I know you will forgive me , my lords . ''  
She gave them no choice ; led by the ever-obliging Lord Hornwood , the bannermen bowed and took their leave .  
Catelyn tilled a horn , sat , sipped , and studied her son .  
He seemed taller than when she 'd left , and the wisps of beard did make him look older .  
`` Pray , who were those men I saw here a moment ago ?  
Roose Bolton , Rickard Karstark , Galbart and Robett Glover , the Greatjon , Heiman Tallhart ... you might have given the command to any of them .  
She saw anger in his eyes at that , but it was gone as quick as it came , and suddenly he was a boy again .  
`` Are you ... are you sending me back to Winterfell ? ''  
If I pack you off now , like a child being sent to bed without his supper , they will remember , and laugh about it in their cups .  
The day will come when you need them to respect you , even fear you a little .  
`` You have my thanks , Mother , '' he said , his relief obvious beneath the formality .  
She reached across his table and touched his hair .  
I have only to look at you to remember the day you came into the world , red-faced and squalling . ''  
Grey Wind rubbed his head against his leg .  
The reports of Robert 's sudden death and Ned 's fall had frightened Catelyn more than she could say , but she would not let her son see her fear .  
`` Lord Manderly told me when I landed at White Harbor .  
`` One for you as well , but it came to Winterfell with mine . ''  
`` This is the one she wrote me , I never thought to bring yours . ''  
All this about how kindly and gently the Lannisters are treating her ... I know the sound of a threat , even whispered .  
They have Sansa hostage , and they mean to keep her . ''  
`` I had hoped ... if you still held the Imp , a trade of hostages ... '' He took Sansa 's letter and crumpled it in his fist , and she could tell from the way he did it that it was not the first time .  
Has she called Lord Arryn 's banners , do you know ?  
`` Mother , what are we going to do ?  
I brought this whole army together , eighteen thousand men , but I do n't ... I 'm not certain ... '' He looked to her , his eyes shining , the proud young lord melted away in an instant , and quick as that he was a child again , a fifteen- year-old boy looking to his mother for answers .  
`` I ... '' He turned his head away , to hide the first tear .  
`` If we march ... even if we win ... the Lannisters hold Sansa , and Father .  
`` You mean they 're lying ? ''  
What I do know is that you have no choice .  
If you turn your tail and retreat to Winterfell , your lords will lose all respect for you .  
Cersei is wise enough to know that she may need them to make her peace , should the fighting go against her . ''  
Catelyn took his hand .  
`` Tell me what you know of the fighting in the riverlands , '' she said .  
`` Uncle Edmure had sent Lord Vance and Lord Piper to hold the pass , but the Kingslayer descended on them and put them to flight .  
The last word we had was that Lord Piper was falling back to join your brother and his other bannermen at Riverrun , with Jaime Lannister on his heels .  
`` Father must have known that , because he sent out some men to oppose them , under the king 's own banner .  
He gave the command to some southron lordling , Lord Erik or Derik or something like that , but Ser Raymun Darry rode with him , and the letter said there were other knights as well , and a force of Father 's own guardsmen .  
Lord Derik had no sooner crossed the Red Fork than the Lannisters fell upon him , the king 's banner be damned , and Gregor Clegane took them in the rear as they tried to pull back across the Mummer 's Ford .  
Lord Tywin has closed off the kingsroad , it 's said , and now he 's marching north toward Harrenhal , burning as he goes . ''  
`` You mean to meet him here ? ''  
`` If he comes so far , but no one thinks he will , '' Robb said .  
`` I 've sent word to Howland Reed , Father 's old friend at Greywater Watch .  
If the Lannisters come up the Neck , the crannogmen will bleed them every step of the way , but Galbart Glover says Lord Tywin is too smart for that , and Roose Bolton agrees .  
He 'll stay close to the Trident , they believe , taking the castles of the river lords one by one , until Riverrun stands alone .  
The very idea of it chilled Catelyn to the bone .  
We 've been waiting for Lord Manderly , but now that his sons have joined us , we need to march . ''  
She was hearing the lords bannermen speaking with her son 's voice , she realized .  
She knew what sorts of men they were , each one .  
She wondered if Robb did .  
`` The Greatjon thinks we should take the battle to Lord Tywin and surprise him , '' he said , `` but the Glovers and the Karstarks feel we 'd be wiser to go around his army and join up with Uncle Ser Edmure against the Kingslayer . ''  
`` Though by the time we reach Riverrun ... I 'm not certain ... '' `` Be certain , '' Catelyn told her son , `` or go home and take up that wooden sword again .  
One end curled up from being rolled ; he weighed it down with his dagger .  
`` Both plans have virtues , but ... look , if we try to swing around Lord Tywin 's host , we take the risk of being caught between him and the Kingslayer , and if we attack him ... by all reports , he has more men than I do , and a lot more armored horse .  
The Greatjon says that wo n't matter if we catch him with his breeches down , but it seems to me that a man who has fought as many battles as Tywin Lannister wo n't be so easily surprised . ''  
She could hear echoes of Ned in his voice , as he sat there , puzzling over the map .  
`` When Lord Tywin gets word that we 've come south , he 'll march north to engage our main host , leaving our riders free to hurry down the west bank to Riverrun . ''  
`` There 's no crossing on the Green Fork above the ruby ford , where Robert won his crown .  
Not until the Twins , all the way up here , and Lord Frey controls that bridge .  
The Late Lord Frey , Catelyn thought .  
He looks like a Tully , she thought , yet he 's still his father 's son , and Ned taught him well .  
I thought I 'd give him the honor . ''  
It was his first misstep , but how to make him see it without wounding his fledgling confidence ?  
`` Your father once told me that the Greatjon was as fearless as any man he had ever known . ''  
`` Grey Wind ate two of his fingers , and he laughed about it .  
`` Well , them and whatever few bowmen I leave here at the Moat .  
So I do n't want someone fearless , do it .  
`` Then let us pray he will scare Tywin Lannister as well . ''  
`` I 'll give the commands , and assemble an escort to take you home to Winterfell . ''  
She had put despair and fear aside , as if they were garments she did not choose to wear ... but now she saw that she had donned them after all .  
TYRION Chella daughter of Cheyk of the Black Ears had gone ahead to scout , and it was she who brought back word of the army at the crossroads .  
He surveyed his ragged band of brigands : near three hundred Stone Crows , Moon Brothers , Black Ears , and Burned Men , and those just the seed of the army he hoped to grow .  
He wondered what his lord father would make of them in their skins and bits of stolen steel .  
Shagga will go with the boyman , and if the boyman lies , Shagga will chop off his manhood- '' `` -and feed it to the goats , yes , '' Tyrion said wearily .  
`` Shagga , I give you my word as a Lannister , I will return . ''  
`` Here I thought we had become such friends .  
You shall ride with me , and Shagga and Conn for the Stone Crows , Ulf for the Moon Brothers , and Timett son of Timett for the Burned Men . ''  
The clansmen exchanged wary looks as he named them .  
He put his heels to his horse and trotted off , giving them no choice but to follow or be left behind .  
That was the trouble with the clans ; they had an absurd notion that every man 's voice should be heard in council , so they argued about everything , endlessly .  
The Stone Crows rode together , and Chella and Ulf stayed close as well , as the Moon Brothers and Black Ears had strong bonds between them .  
Every clan in the Mountains of the Moon feared the Burned Men , who mortified their flesh with fire to prove their courage and ( the others said ) roasted babies at their feasts .  
And even the other Burned Men feared Timett , who had put out his own left eye with a white-hot knife when he reached the age of manhood .  
Timett 's fellow Burned Men were so awed by his choice of an eye that they promptly named him a red hand , which seemed to be some sort of a war chief .  
Grinning , the sellsword had tugged at his crotch ... but even Bronn kept a respectful tongue around Timett .  
Distant watchers peered down from towers of unmortared stone as the party descended through the foothills , and once Tyrion saw a raven take wing .  
The captain was quick to appear , and even quicker to give them an escort when he recognized his lord 's son .  
A party of mounted horsemen rode forward to challenge them as they approached the stakes .  
Ser Flement Brax lifted his visor .  
`` My lord , we all feared you dead , or ... '' He looked at the clansmen uncertainly .  
`` Where will I find my lord father ? ''  
Ser Flement wheeled his horse about and shouted commands .  
Tyrion spied the red ox of the Presters , Lord Crakehall 's brindled boar , the burning tree of Addarn Marbrand , the badger of Lydden .  
Knights called out to him as he cantered past , and men-at-arms gaped at the clansmen in open astonishment .  
The rest of the mountain brigands did a better job of guarding their faces , but Tyrion had no doubts that they were full as much in awe .  
The inn and its stables were much as he remembered , though little more than tumbled stones and blackened foundations remained where the rest of the village had stood .  
Shagga did not want to give his up .  
`` He only wants to give her some oats and water and brush out her coat . ''  
`` You have my word , the horse will not be harmed . ''  
Glaring , Shagga let go his grip on the reins .  
`` If he does n't give her back , chop off his manhood and feed it to the goats , '' Tyrion promised .  
When his once-thick golden hair had begun to recede , he had commanded his barber to shave his head ; Lord Tywin did not believe in half measures .  
Ser Kevan saw him first .  
Lord Tywin did not stir from his chair , but he did give his dwarf son a long , searching look .  
`` No need to leap up and embrace me , I would n't want you to strain yourself . ''  
He crossed the room to their table , acutely conscious of the way his stunted legs made him waddle with every step .  
Whenever his father 's eyes were on him , he became uncomfortably aware of all his deformities and shortcomings .  
`` That 's one way we differ , Jaime and I .  
Morrec and Jyck were killed . ''  
`` Do n't trouble yourself , Father , I 've acquired a few of my own . ''  
Ser Edmure had scattered small troops of men along his borders to stop our raiding , and your lord father and I were able to destroy most of them piecemeal before they could regroup . ''  
`` He smashed the Lords Vance and Piper at the Golden Tooth , and met the massed power of the Tullys under the walls of Riverrun .  
Lord Blackwood led a few survivors back to Riverrun , where Jaime has them under siege .  
`` Your father and I have been marching on each in turn , '' Ser Kevan said .  
`` With Lord Blackwood gone , Raventree fell at once , and Lady Whent yielded Harrenhal for want of men to defend it .  
Ser Gregor burnt out the Pipers and the Brackens ... '' `` Leaving you unopposed ? ''  
`` The Mallisters still hold Seagard and Walder Frey is marshaling his levies at the Twins . ''  
`` Frey only takes the field when the scent of victory is in the air , and all he smells now is ruin .  
Unless the Starks and the Arryns come forth to oppose us , this war is good as won . ''  
`` I would not fret overmuch about the Arryns if I were you , '' Tyrion said .  
`` He will lead no armies while he rots in a dungeon under the Red Keep . ''  
No doubt he likes the sound of warhorns well enough , and the sight of his banners fluttering in the wind , but in the end it comes down to butcher 's work .  
I doubt he has the stomach for it . ''  
Things had gotten interesting while he 'd been away , Tyrion reflected .  
`` Marq Piper and Karyl Vance are loose in our rear , raiding our lands across the Red Fork . ''  
Ordinarily I 'd be glad to punish such rudeness , Father , but the truth is , I have pressing business elsewhere . ''  
`` We also have a pair of Ned Stark 's afterthoughts making a nuisance of themselves by harassing my foraging parties .  
He has that fat jape of a priest with him , the one who likes to set his sword on fire .  
Do you think you might be able to deal with them as you scamper off ?  
`` Father , it warms my heart to think that you might entrust me with ... what , twenty men ?  
If I should come across Thoros and Lord Beric , I shall spank them both . ''  
`` First , though , I have some promises of my own to keep , '' he said as he sliced off a wedge .  
`` I shall require three thousand helms and as many hauberks , plus swords , pikes , steel spearheads , maces , battleaxes , gauntlets , gorgets , greaves , breastplates , wagons to carry all this- '' The door behind him opened with a crash , so violently that Tyrion almost dropped his cheese .  
Ser Kevan leapt up swearing as the captain of the guard went flying across the room to smash against the hearth .  
As he tumbled down into the cold ashes , his lion helm askew , Shagga snapped the man 's sword in two over a knee thick as a tree trunk , threw down the pieces , and lumbered into the common room .  
`` They followed me home , Father , '' Tyrion explained .  
`` May I keep them ?  
Ser Kevan 's hand went to his sword hilt , but his brother placed two fingers on his wrist and held him fast .  
`` Tyrion , have you forgotten your courtesies ?  
Here is Ulf son of Umar of the Moon Brothers , and here Timett son of Timett , a red hand of the Burned Men .  
He has already changed sides twice in the short time I 've known him , you and he ought to get on famously , Father . ''  
To Bronn and the clansmen he said , `` May I present my lord father , Tywin son of Tytos of House Lannister , Lord of Casterly Rock , Warden of the West , Shield of Lannisport , and once and future Hand of the King . ''  
Tyrion was about to tell his lord father how he proposed to reduce the Vale of Arryn to a smoking wasteland , but he was never given the chance .  
The messenger gave Tyrion 's clansmen a quick , queer look as he dropped to one knee before Lord Tywin .  
Lord Tywin never smiled , but Tyrion had learned to read his father 's pleasure all the same , and it was there on his face .  
He is not to engage the northerners until we arrive , but I want him to harass their flanks and draw them farther south . ''  
If they are coming south , I say let them come , and break themselves against us . ''  
`` The boy may hang back or lose his courage when he sees our numbers , '' Lord Tywin replied .  
Tell the drummers to beat assembly , and send word to Jaime that I am marching against Robb Stark . ''  
`` Ride with me against my enemies , and you shall have all my son promised you , and more , '' Lord Tywin told them .  
Ulf son of Umar said .  
`` Why should we need the father 's promise , when we have the son 's ? ''  
You need not join us .  
`` Wherever the Burned Men go , the Stone Crows have been there first , '' Conn declared hotly .  
He has bought his breath with promises .  
Until we hold the steel he has pledged us , his life is ours . ''  
Lord Tywin turned his gold-flecked eyes on his son .  
The walls of the throne room had been stripped bare , the hunting tapestries that King Robert loved taken down and stacked in the corner in an untidy heap .  
Ser Mandon Moore went to take his place under the throne beside two of his fellows of the Kingsguard .  
The queen had given her freedom of the castle as a reward for being good , yet even so , she was escorted everywhere she went .  
`` Freedom , of the castle '' meant that she could go wherever she chose within the Red Keep so long as she promised not to go beyond the walls , a promise Sansa had been more than willing to give .  
Besides , even if she could leave the castle , where would she go ?  
Sometimes she prayed in the godswood as well , since the Starks kept the old gods .  
This was the first court session of Joffrey 's reign , so Sansa looked about nervously .  
Sansa slipped in among them , murmuring greetings as she worked her way toward the front .  
She recognized black-skinned Jalabhar Xho , gloomy Ser Aron Santagar , the Redwyne twins Horrorstruck and Slobber ... only none of them seemed to recognize her .  
Or if they did , they shied away as if she had the grey plague .  
Sickly Lord Gyles covered his face at her approach and feigned a fit of coughing , and when funny drunken Ser Dontos started to hail her , Ser Balon Swann whispered in his ear and he turned away .  
She saw Lord Varys hurry into the hall , his feet making no sound .  
A moment later Lord Baelish entered through the tall doors in the rear , smiling .  
He chatted amiably with Ser Balon and Ser Dontos as he made his way to the front .  
I should n't be afraid , she told herself .  
I have nothing to be afraid of , it will all come out well , Joff loves me and the queen does too , she said so .  
`` All hail His Grace , Joffrey of the Houses Baratheon and Lannister , the First of his Name , King of the Andals , the Rhoynar , and the First Men , and Lord of the Seven Kingdoms .  
All hail his lady mother , Cersei of House Lannister , Queen Regent , Light of the West , and Protector of the Realm . ''  
Ser Arys Oakheart escorted the queen , while Ser Boros Blount walked beside Joffrey , so six of the Kingsguard were now in the hall , all the White Swords save Jaime Lannister alone .  
When Joffrey turned to look out over the hall , his eye caught Sansa 's .  
Grand Maester Pycelle , I command you to read my decrees . ''  
Pycelle pushed himself to his feet .  
From a drooping sleeve , heavy with gilded scrollwork , he drew a parchment , unrolled it , and began to read a long list of names , commanding each in the name of king and council to present themselves and swear their fealty to Joffrey .  
The names he read made Sansa hold her breath .  
Lord Hoster Tully , his brother Ser Brynden , his son Ser Edmure .  
So many , she thought as Pycelle read on and on , it will take a whole flock of ravens to send out these commands .  
They wanted Arya to present herself and swear an oath ... it must mean her sister had fled on the galley , she must be safe at Winterfell by now ... Grand Maester Pycelle rolled up the list , tucked it up his left sleeve , and pulled another parchment from his right .  
He cleared his throat and resumed .  
`` In the place of the traitor Eddard Stark , it is the wish of His Grace that Tywin Lannister , Lord of Casterly Rock and Warden of the West , take up the office of Hand of the King , to speak with his voice , lead his armies against his enemies , and carry out his royal will .  
`` In the place of the traitor Stannis Baratheon , it is the wish of His Grace that his lady mother , the Queen Regent Cersei Lannister , who has ever been his staunchest support , be seated upon his small council , that she may help him rule wisely and with justice .  
Sansa heard a soft murmuring from the lords around her , but it was quickly stilled .  
`` It is also the wish of His Grace that his loyal servant , Janos Slynt , Commander of the City Watch of King 's Landing , be at once raised to the rank of lord and granted the ancient seat of Harrenhal with all its attendant lands and incomes , and that his sons and grandsons shall hold these honors after him until the end of time .  
It is moreover his command that Lord Slynt be seated immediately upon his small council , to assist in the governance of the realm .  
Sansa glimpsed motion from the corner of her eye as Janos Slynt made his entrance .  
Two ugly boys who must have been his sons went before him , struggling with the weight of a heavy metal shield as tall as they were .  
As Lord Slynt took his place , Grand Maester Pycelle resumed .  
`` Lastly , in these times of treason and turmoil , with our beloved Robert so lately dead , it is the view of the council that the life and safety of King Joffrey is of paramount importance He looked to the queen .  
Ser Barristan had been standing at the foot of the Iron Throne , as still as any statue , but now he went to one knee and bowed his head .  
`` Your Grace , I am yours to command . ''  
`` You have served the realm long and faithfully , good ser , and every man and woman in the Seven Kingdoms owes you thanks .  
Yet now I fear your service is at an end .  
I fear I ... I do not '' The new-made lord , Janos Slynt , spoke up , his voice heavy and blunt .  
`` Her Grace is trying to tell you that you are relieved as Lord Commander of the Kingsguard . ''  
`` You let my father die , '' Joffrey said accusingly from atop the Iron Throne .  
Sansa watched as the knight peered up at his new king .  
She had never seen him look his years before , yet now he did .  
It was all I had ever dreamed , from the moment I first took sword in hand .  
The girl I was to wed married my cousin in my place , I had no need of land or sons , my life would be lived for the realm .  
Ser Gerold Hightower himself heard my vows ... to ward the king with all my strength ... to give my blood for his ... I fought beside the White Bull and Prince Lewyn of Dorne ... beside Ser Arthur Dayne , the Sword of the Morning .  
Before I served your father , I helped shield King Aerys , and his father Jaehaerys before him ... three kings ... '' `` And all of them dead , '' Littlefinger pointed out .  
`` The false knight who profaned his blade with the blood of the king he had sworn to defend . ''  
Lord Tywin Lannister has generously agreed to grant you a handsome tract of land north of Lannisport , beside the sea , with gold and men sufficient to build you a stout keep , and servants to see to your every need . ''  
I thank you , my lords ... but I spit upon your pity . ''  
They all laughed then , Joffrey on his throne , and the lords standing attendance , Janos Slynt and Queen Cersei and Sandor Clegane and even the other men of the Kingsguard , the five who had been his brothers until a moment ago .  
Finally he drew his sword .  
Ser Boros and Ser Meryn moved forward to confront him , but Ser Barristan froze them in place with a look that dripped contempt .  
He flung his sword at the foot of the Iron Throne .  
Melt it down and add it to the others , if you like .  
Not until the pages had closed the great oak-and- bronze doors behind him did Sansa hear sounds again : soft voices , uneasy stirrings , the shuffle of papers from the council table .  
`` He called me boy , '' Joffrey said peevishly , sounding younger than his years .  
`` He talked about my uncle Stannis too . ''  
Joffrey raised his voice .  
`` I said , I want him seized ! ''  
Lord Janos strode from the hall , his ugly sons double-stepping to keep up as they lugged the great metal shield with the arms of House Slynt .  
We find ourselves in need of a new sword for your Kingsguard . ''  
I have no lands nor wife to forsake , and who 'd care if I did ? ''  
`` But I warn you , I 'll say no knight 's vows . ''  
She was dressed in mourning , as a sign of respect for the dead king , but she had taken special care to make herself beautiful .  
Her gown was the ivory silk that the queen had given her , the one Arya had ruined , but she 'd had them dye it black and you could n't see the stain at all .  
`` If any man in this hall has other matters to set before His Grace , let him speak now or go forth and hold his silence . ''  
Now , she told herself , I must do it now .  
Lords and knights stepped aside silently to let her pass , and she felt the weight of their eyes on her .  
Sansa lifted her head and walked toward him , not too slow and not too fast .  
She must not let them see how nervous she was .  
`` Do you have some business for king and council , Sansa ? ''  
She knelt on the cloak , so as not to spoil her gown , and looked up at her prince on his fearsome black throne .  
`` As it please Your Grace , I ask mercy for my father , Lord Eddard Stark , who was the Hand of the King . ''  
`` Sansa , you disappoint me .  
What did I tell you about traitor 's blood ? ''  
`` She is only a babe , my lords , she does not know what she asks . ''  
Sansa had eyes only for Joffrey .  
He must listen to me , he must , she thought .  
The king shifted on his seat , `` Let her speak , '' he commanded .  
`` I want to hear what she says . ''  
She knew he would .  
`` Do you deny your father 's crime ? ''  
`` I know he must be punished .  
I know my lord father must regret what he did .  
He was King Robert 's friend and he loved him , you all know he loved him .  
He never wanted to be Hand until the king asked him .  
Lord Renly or Lord Stannis or ... or somebody , they must have lied , otherwise ... '' King Joffrey leaned forward , hands grasping the arms of the throne .  
`` He said I was n't the king .  
`` It hurt ever so much , Maester Pycelle was giving him milk of the poppy , and they say that milk of the poppy fills your head with clouds .  
Varys said , `` A child's-faith ... such sweet innocence ... and yet , they say wisdom oft comes from the mouths of babes . ''  
Cersei Lannister considered Sansa thoughtfully .  
`` If Lord Eddard were to confess his crime , '' she said at last , `` we would know he had repented his folly . ''  
Joffrey pushed himself to his feet .  
Please , Sansa thought , please , please , be the king I know you are , good and kind and noble , please .  
he asked her .  
`` Only ... that as you love me , you do me this kindness , my prince , '' Sansa said .  
King Joffrey looked her up and down .  
`` I shall do as you ask ... but first your father has to confess .  
He has to confess and say that I 'm the king , or there will be no mercy for him . ''  
`` Oh , I know he will . ''  
He had seen them , briefly , a quick glimpse as they shoved him inside .  
Once the door had slammed shut , he had seen no more .  
He remembered the jest the king had shared in the crypts of Winterfell , as the Kings of Winter looked on with cold stone eyes .  
He remembered the old stories about Maegor the Cruel , who murdered all the masons who labored on his castle , so they might never reveal its secrets .  
He damned them all : Littlefinger , Janos Slynt and his gold cloaks , the queen , the Kingslayer , Pycelle and Varys and Ser Barristan , even Lord Renly , Robert 's own blood , who had run when he was needed most .  
`` Fool , `` he cried to the darkness , `` thrice- damned blind fool . ''  
`` When you play the game of thrones , you win or you die , '' she whispered .  
Ned had played and lost , and his men had paid the price of his folly with their life 's blood .  
When he thought of his daughters , he would have wept gladly , but the tears would not come .  
When he kept very still , his leg did not hurt so much , so he did his best to lie unmoving .  
Ned closed his eyes and opened them ; it made no difference .  
When he slept , he dreamed : dark disturbing dreams of blood and broken promises .  
When he woke , there was nothing to do but think , and his waking thoughts were worse than nightmares .  
He wondered where she was , what she was doing .  
He wondered whether he would ever see her again .  
When he touched his thigh , the flesh was hot to his fingers .  
Alyn and Harwin would return to King 's Landing with the rest of his household guard once they had dealt with Ser Gregor .  
Catelyn would raise the north when the word reached her , and the lords of river and mountain and Vale would join her .  
He found himself thinking of Robert more and more .  
He saw the king as he had been in the flower of his youth , tall and handsome , his great antlered helm on his head , his warhammer in hand , sitting his horse like a horned god .  
He heard his laughter in the dark , saw his eyes , blue and clear as mountain lakes .  
`` Gods , how did we come to this ?  
You here , and me killed by a pig .  
We won a throne together ... '' I failed you , Robert , Ned thought .  
I let them kill you .  
Cracks ran down his face , fissures opening in the flesh , and he reached up and ripped the mask away .  
It was not Robert at all ; it was Littlefinger , grinning , mocking him .  
When he opened his mouth to speak , his lies turned to pale grey moths and took wing .  
At first he thought he dreamt them ; it had been so long since he had heard anything but the sound of his own voice .  
Ned grasped it with both hands and gulped eagerly .  
Water Tower ran from his mouth and dripped down through his beard .  
He drank until he thought he would be sick .  
He blinked as the light vanished , lowered his head to his chest , and curled up on the straw .  
He remembered Brandon 's laughter , and Robert 's berserk valor in the melee , the way he laughed as he unhorsed men left and right .  
He remembered Jaime Lannister , a golden youth in scaled white armor , kneeling on the grass in front of the king 's pavilion and making his vows to protect and defend King Aerys .  
Afterward , Ser Oswell Whent helped Jaime to his feet , and the White Bull himself , Lord Commander Ser Gerold Hightower , fastened the snowy cloak of the Kingsguard about his shoulders .  
Yet when the jousting began , the day belonged to Rhaegar Targaryen .  
A plume of scarlet silk streamed behind him when he rode , and it seemed no lance could touch him .  
Brandon fell to him , and Bronze Yohn Royce , and even the splendid Ser Arthur Dayne , the Sword of the Morning .  
Ned remembered the moment when all the smiles died , when Prince Rhaegar Targaryen urged his horse past his own wife , the Dornish princess Elia Martell , to lay the queen of beauty 's laurel in Lyanna 's lap .  
He could see it still : a crown of winter roses , blue as frost .  
Ned Stark reached out his hand to grasp the flowery crown , but beneath the pale blue petals the thorns lay hidden .  
He felt them clawing at his skin , sharp and cruel , saw the slow trickle of blood run down his fingers , and woke , trembling , in the dark .  
Each time the turnkey brought him water , he told himself another day had passed .  
Later , when the stomach cramps began , he begged for food instead .  
If Cersei had wanted him dead , he would have been cut down in the throne room with his men .  
Catelyn held her brother ; she dare not kill him or the Imp 's life would be forfeit as well .  
As the door creaked open , Ned put a hand to the damp wall and pushed himself toward the light .  
The glare of a torch made him squint .  
The voice was strangely familiar , yet it took Ned Stark a moment to place it .  
he said groggily when it came .  
`` You wrong me , '' Varys said sadly .  
He felt as though he were about to bring the wine back up .  
Our new king loves her not .  
Cersei keeps her close .  
She came to court a few days ago to plead that you be spared .  
`` I trust you realize that you are a dead man , Lord Eddard ? ''  
`` Cat ... Cat holds her brother ... '' `` The wrong brother , '' Varys sighed .  
She let the Imp slip through her fingers .  
I expect he is dead by now , somewhere in the Mountains of the Moon . ''  
`` When they slaughtered my guard , you stood beside the queen and watched , and said not a word . ''  
I seem to recall that I was unarmed , unarmored , and surrounded by Lannister swords . ''  
`` When I was a young boy , before I was cut , I traveled with a troupe of mummers through the Free Cities .  
They taught me that each man has a role to play , in life as well as mummery .  
`` Can you free me from this pit ? ''  
I will gladly provide you with paper and ink , if you like .  
And when you have written what you will , I will take the letter and read it , and deliver it or not , as best serves my own ends . ''  
`` For fifteen years I protected him from his enemies , but I could not protect him from his friends .  
What strange fit of madness led you to tell the queen that you had learned the truth of Joffrey 's birth ? ''  
`` When I see what honesty and honor have won you , I understand why . ''  
Ned Stark laid his head back against the damp stone wall and closed his eyes .  
Cersei gave him the wineskins , and told him it was Robert 's favorite vintage . ''  
If the boar had not done for Robert , it would have been a fall from a horse , the bite of a wood adder , an arrow gone astray ... the forest is the abbatoir of the gods .  
Robert was becoming unruly , and she needed to be rid of him to free her hands to deal with his brothers .  
He wiped his mouth with the back of his hand .  
You ought to have heeded Littlefinger when he urged you to support Joffrey 's succession . ''  
Slowly Ned raised his eyes .  
`` Cersei is frightened of you , my lord ... but she has other enemies she fears even more .  
Lysa Arryn sits in the Eyrie , ringed in stone and steel , and there is no love lost between her and the queen .  
In Dorne , the Martells still brood on the murder of Princess Elia and her babes .  
No one knows what Stannis has been doing on Dragonstone , but I will wager you that he 's gathered more swords than seashells .  
So here is Cersei 's nightmare : while her father and brother spend their power battling Starks and Tullys , Lord Stannis will land , proclaim himself king , and lop off her son 's curly blond head ... and her own in the bargain , though I truly believe she cares more about the boy . ''  
`` Cersei will not want to hear that , I promise you .  
Stannis may win the throne , but only your rotting head will remain to cheer unless you guard that tongue of yours .  
Sansa begged so sweetly , it would be a shame if you threw it all away .  
`` You want me to serve the woman who murdered my king , butchered my men , and crippled my son ? ''  
If you will give her the peace she needs and the time to deal with Stannis , and pledge to carry her secret to your grave , I believe she will allow you to take the black and live out the rest of your days on the Wall , with your brother and that baseborn son of yours . ''  
The thought of Jon filled Ned with a sense of shame , and a sorrow too deep for words .  
Oh , I feed him choice whispers , sufficient so that he thinks I am his ... just as I allow Cersei to believe I am hers . ''  
`` And just as you let me believe that you were mine .  
Tell me , Lord Varys , who do you truly serve ? ''  
I swear it by my lost manhood .  
I serve the realm , and the realm needs peace . ''  
Give me your word that you 'll tell the queen what she wants to hear when she comes calling . ''  
`` My daughter `` Surely you did not think I 'd forgotten about your sweet innocent , my lord ?  
`` No , `` Ned pleaded , his voice cracking .  
She had a small black kitten she called Balerion , did you know ?  
Rhaenys liked to pretend he was the true Balerion , the Black Dread of old , but I imagine the Lannisters taught her the difference between a kitten and a dragon quick enough , the day they broke down her door . ''  
`` The High Septon once told me that as we sin , so do we suffer .  
If that 's true , Lord Eddard , tell me ... why is it always the innocents who suffer most , when you high lords play your game of thrones ?  
Ponder it , if you would , while you wait upon the queen .  
She masked her fears behind a face kept still and stern , yet they were there all the same , growing with every league they crossed .  
She feared for her brother Edmure , and prayed that the gods would watch over him if he must face the Kingslayer in battle .  
She feared for Ned and her girls , and for the sweet sons she had left behind at Winterfell .  
And yet there was nothing she could do for any of them , and so she made herself put all thought of them aside .  
You must save your strength for Robb , she told herself .  
Each day he would ask one of his lords to join him , so they might confer as they marched ; he honored every man in turn , showing no favorites , listening as his lord father had listened , weighing the words of one against the other .  
He has learned so much from Ned , she thought as she watched him , but has he learned enough ?  
Her brother Edmure had called the banners ; by rights , Lord Frey should have gone to join the Tully host at Riverrun , yet here he sat .  
Surely he means to join his power to ours . ''  
She had ridden forward to join Robb and Robett Glover , his companion of the day .  
Still ... '' `` Do you think he means to betray us to the Lannisters , my lady ? ''  
`` If truth be told , I doubt even Lord Frey knows what Lord Frey intends to do .  
It was there Theon Greyjoy brought them further word from her uncle .  
`` Ser Brynden says to tell you he 's crossed swords with the Lannisters .  
`` Ser Addam Marbrand commands their outriders , and he 's pulling back south , burning as he goes .  
He knows where we are , more or less , but the Blackfish vows he will not know when we split . ''  
`` Theon , when you return to my uncle , tell him he is to place his best bowmen around the Twins , day and night , with orders to bring down any raven they see leaving the battlements .  
I want no birds bringing word of my son 's movements to Lord Tywin . ''  
`` Ser Brynden has seen to it already , my lady , '' Theon replied with a cocky smile .  
`` What have the Freys been doing while the Lannisters ; burn their fields and plunder their holdfasts ? ''  
`` Not a day 's ride from here , we found two Lannister scouts feeding the crows where the Freys had strung them up .  
That bore Walder Frey 's seal beyond a doubt , Catelyn thought bitterly ; hold back , wait , watch , take no risk unless forced to it .  
`` If he 's been fighting the Lannisters , perhaps he does mean to hold to his vows , '' Robb said .  
`` Defending his own lands is one thing , open battle against Lord Tywin quite another . ''  
Ser Brynden says it ca n't be forded , not this far north . ''  
We 'd need to build rafts to pole our steel across , helms and mail and lances , and we do n't have the trees for that .  
He balled his hand into a fist .  
You can take the Twins if you need to , Robb . ''  
While you were mounting your siege , Tywin Lannister would bring up his host and assault you from the rear . ''  
Robb glanced from her to Greyjoy , searching for an answer and finding none .  
he asked her .  
Her uncle 's face was grave as he swung down off his horse .  
`` We had it from a Lannister outrider we took captive .  
The Kingslayer has destroyed Edmure 's host and sent the lords of the Trident reeling in flight . ''  
`` We must get across this accursed river if we 're to have any hope of relieving them in time . ''  
`` Lord Frey has pulled his whole strength back inside his castles , and his gates are closed and barred . ''  
`` If the old fool does not relent and let me cross , he 'll leave me no choice but to storm his walls .  
I 'll pull the Twins down around his ears if I have to , we 'll see how well he likes that ! ''  
`` Tell me what you mean , Mother , '' he said meekly .  
`` The Freys have held the crossing for six hundred years , and for six hundred years they have never failed to exact their toll . ''  
Catelyn put her heels to her horse and rode off , leaving her son to ponder her words .  
It would not do to make him feel as if his mother were usurping his place .  
Did you teach him wisdom as well as valor , Ned ?  
Did you teach him how to kneel ?  
It was near midday when their vanguard came in sight of the Twins , where the Lords of the Crossing had their seat .  
The Green Fork ran swift and deep here , but the Freys had spanned it many centuries past and grown rich off the coin men paid them to cross .  
It had taken the Freys three generations to complete their bridge ; when they were done they 'd thrown up stout timber keeps on either bank , so no one might cross without their leave .  
High curtain walls , deep moats , and heavy oak-and-iron gates protected the approaches , the bridge footings rose from within stout inner keeps , there was a barbican and portcullis on either bank , and the Water Tower defended the span itself .  
The Greatjon began to curse and swear as soon as he saw what awaited them .  
Robb spurred his horse forward .  
He was in his armor , with the direwolf shield of Winterfell strapped to his saddle and Grey Wind padding by his side .  
`` Go in there alone and you 're his .  
He can sell you to the Lannisters , throw you in a dungeon , or slit your throat , as he likes . ''  
`` If he wants to talk to us , let him open his gates , and we will all share his meat and mead , '' declared Ser Wendel Manderly .  
`` Or let him come out and treat with Robb here , in plain sight of his men and ours , '' suggested his brother , Ser Wylis .  
Catelyn Stark shared all their doubts , but she had only to glance at Ser Stevron to see that he was not pleased by what he was hearing .  
`` I will go , `` she said loudly .  
The Greatjon furrowed his brow .  
I have known him since I was a girl .  
Unless he saw some profit in it , she added silently , but some truths did not bear saying , and some lies were necessary .  
`` I am certain my lord father would be pleased to speak to the Lady Catelyn , '' Ser Stevron said .  
`` To vouchsafe for our good intentions , my brother Ser Perwyn will remain here until she is safely returned to you ... `` He shall be our honored guest , '' said Robb .  
`` I require my lady mother 's return by evenfall , Ser Stevron , '' Robb went on .  
Catelyn spurred her horse forward and did not look back .  
When the Lord of the Crossing welcomed Catelyn in the great hall of the east castle , surrounded by twenty living sons ( minus Ser Perwyn , who would have made twenty-one ) , thirty-six grandsons , nineteen great-grandsons , and numerous daughters , granddaughters , bastards , and grandbastards , she understood just what he had meant .  
His newest wife , a pale frail girl of sixteen years , walked beside his litter when they carried him in .  
Spare me your sweet words , Lady Catelyn , I am too old .  
Catelyn had been a girl the last time she had visited the Twins , but even then Lord Walder had been irascible , sharp of tongue , and blunt of manner .  
Age had made him worse than ever , it would seem .  
`` Did I ask you ?  
You are not Lord Frey yet , not until I die .  
`` I 'll speak any way I like , damn you .  
I 've had three kings to guest in my life , and queens as well , do you think I require lessons from the likes of you , Ryger ?  
Your mother was milking goats the first time I gave her my seed . ''  
`` Now that I have observed the courtesies , my lady , perhaps my sons will do me the honor of shutting their mouths .  
She saw no reason to deny it .  
You are still my father 's bannerman , are you not ? ''  
`` I called my swords , yes I did , here they are , you saw them on the walls .  
I am well past marching myself , Lady Catelyn . ''  
`` Is it my fault that your fool brother lost his battle before we could march ? ''  
He leaned back against his cushions and scowled at her , as if challenging her to dispute his version of events .  
`` I am told the Kingslayer went through him like an axe through ripe cheese .  
Catelyn would gladly have spitted the querulous old man and roasted him over a fire , but she had only till evenfall to open the bridge .  
Calmly , she said , `` All the more reason that we must reach Riverrun , and soon .  
Might be she has designs on my fidelity , heh .  
As his sons and grandsons and daughters and bastards and nieces and nephews streamed from the hall , he leaned close to Catelyn and confessed , `` They 're all waiting for me to die .  
Stevron 's been waiting for forty years , but I keep disappointing him .  
Why should I die just so he can be a lord ?  
`` Do n't you try and frighten me , my lady .  
I 'll match you son for son , and I 'll still have eighteen when yours are all dead . ''  
He bobbed his head side to side , smiling .  
`` Oh , yes , I said some words , but I swore oaths to the crown too , it seems to me .  
If I had the sense the gods gave a fish , I 'd help the Lannisters boil you all . ''  
I 'll wager you , he cats too many beans , he breaks wind just like me , but you 'll never hear him admit it , oh , no .  
I 'll match him son for son , and I 'll still have nineteen and a half left when all of his are dead ! ''  
`` If Lord Tywin wants my help , he can bloody well ask for it . ''  
`` And my father and my brother and my lord husband and my sons are asking with my voice . ''  
Did you see her ?  
I wager she gives me a son by this time next year .  
An insult , as I see it .  
He calls me the Late Lord Frey , you know .  
Does he think I 'm dead ?  
I 'm not dead , and I promise you , I 'll outlive him as I outlived his father .  
Your family has always pissed on me , do n't deny it , do n't lie , you know it 's true .  
Years ago , I went to your father and suggested a match between his son and my daughter .  
I had a daughter in mind , sweet girl , only a few years older than Edmure , but if your brother did n't warm to her , I had others he might have had , young ones , old ones , virgins , widows , whatever he wanted .  
Sweet words he gave me , excuses , but what I wanted was to get rid of a daughter .  
It was , oh , a year ago , no more , Jon Arryn was still the King 's Hand , and I went to the city to see my sons ride in the tourney .  
Stevron and Jared are too old for the lists now , but Danwell and Hosteen rode , Perwyn as well , and a couple of my bastards tried the melee .  
If I 'd known how they 'd shame me , I would never have troubled myself to make the journey .  
Why did I need to ride all that way to see Hosteen knocked off his horse by that Tyrell whelp ?  
The boy 's half his age , Ser Daisy they call him , something like that .  
Well , never mind about that , she died before you were born , what do you care ?  
I proposed that Lord and Lady Arryn foster two of my grandsons at court , and offered to take their own son to ward here at the Twins .  
Walder is Merrett 's son , named after me , and the other one ... heh , I do n't recall ... he might have been another Walder , they 're always naming them Walder so I 'll favor them , but his father ... which one was his father now ? ''  
`` Well , whoever he was , Lord Arryn would n't have him , or the other one , and I blame your lady sister for that .  
She frosted up as if I 'd suggested selling her boy to a mummer 's show or making a eunuch out of him , and when Lord Arryn said the child was going to Dragonstone to foster with Stannis Baratheon , she stormed off without a word of regrets and all the Hand could give me was apologies .  
`` I had understood that Lysa 's boy was to be fostered with Lord Tywin at Casterly Rock . ''  
`` Do you think I ca n't tell Lord Stannis from Lord Tywin ?  
They 're both bungholes who think they 're too noble to shit , but never mind about that , I know the difference .  
Or do you think I 'm so old I ca n't remember ?  
I 'm ninety and I remember very well .  
I remember what to do with a woman too .  
Boy or girl , it will be red , wrinkled , and squalling , and like as not she 'll want to name it Walder or Walda . ''  
`` Only he died , so what does it matter ?  
You say you want to cross the river ? ''  
`` Not unless I allow it , and why should I ?  
He pushed himself back in his chair and crossed his arms , smirking , waiting for her answer .  
The drawbridge creaked down , the portcullis winched up , and Lady Catelyn Stark rode forth to rejoin her son and his lords bannermen .  
Behind her came Ser Jared Frey , Ser Hosteen Frey , Ser Danwell Frey , and Lord Walder 's bastard son Ronel Rivers , leading a long column of pikemen , rank on rank of shuffling men in blue steel ringmail and silvery grey cloaks .  
Robb galloped out to meet her , with Grey Wind racing beside his stallion .  
`` Lord Walder will grant you your crossing .  
His swords are yours as well , less four hundred he means to keep back to hold the Twins .  
I suggest that you leave four hundred of your own , a mixed force of archers and swordsmen .  
He can scarcely object to an offer to augment his garrison ... but make certain you give the command to a man you can trust .  
`` Perhaps ... Ser Helman Tallhart , do you think ? ''  
`` What ... what did he want of us ? ''  
`` If you can spare a few of your swords , I need some men to escort two of Lord Frey 's grandsons north to Winterfell , '' she told him .  
His father would like to see him knighted , in good time . ''  
`` Fine , that 's fine , if he's- '' `` Also , if your sister Arya is returned to us safely , it is agreed that she will marry Lord Walder 's youngest son , Elmar , when the two of them come of age . ''  
`` His lordship has graciously consented to allow you to choose whichever girl you prefer .  
He has a number he thinks might be suitable . ''  
`` Can I refuse ? ''  
He had never seemed more manly to her than he did in that moment .  
Boys might play with swords , but it took a lord to make a marriage pact , knowing what it meant .  
Catelyn rode at the head of the serpent , with her son and her uncle Ser Brynden and Ser Stevron Frey .  
Afterward , Catelyn would remember the clatter of countless hooves on the drawbridge , the sight of Lord Walder Frey in his litter watching them pass , the glitter of eyes peering down through the slats of the murder holes in the ceiling as they rode through the Water Tower .  
Robb had commanded him to continue the march south , to confront the huge Lannister army coming north under Lord Tywin .  
JON Are you well , Snow ? ''  
How well could I be ? ''  
Jon flexed his bandaged fingers to show him .  
He had burned himself more badly than he knew throwing the flaming drapes , and his right hand was swathed in silk halfway to the elbow .  
Maester Aemon had given him milk of the poppy , yet even so , the pain had been hideous .  
Jon thanked the gods that no one but Ghost saw him writhing on his bed , whimpering from the pain .  
And when at last he did sleep , he dreamt , and that was even worse .  
In the dream , the corpse he fought had blue eyes , black hands , and his father 's face , but he dared not tell Mormont that .  
`` They found no sign of your uncle , no more than the others did . ''  
Jon had dragged himself to the common hall to sup with his friends , and the failure of the rangers ' search had been all the men had been talking of .  
`` It would seem there were only the two of ... of those creatures , whatever they were , I will not call them men .  
I can feel it in these old bones of mine , and Maester Aemon agrees .  
`` Father , `` taunted the old raven , bobbing its head as it walked across Mormont 's shoulders .  
The Lord Commander reached up to pinch its beak shut , but the raven hopped up on his head , fluttered its wings , and flew across the chamber to light above a window .  
Why I put up with that pestilential bird ... if there was news of Lord Eddard , do n't you think I would have sent for you ?  
Bastard or no , you 're still his blood .  
It seems he 's been removed from the Kingsguard .  
They gave his place to that black dog Clegane , and now Selmy 's wanted for treason .  
The fools sent some watchmen to seize him , but he slew two of them and escaped . ''  
Mormont snorted , leaving no doubt of his view of men who 'd send gold cloaks against a knight as renowed as Barristan the Bold .  
`` We have white shadows in the woods and unquiet dead stalking our halls , and a boy sits the Iron Throne , '' he said in disgust .  
Ser Barristan had been the Old Bear 's best hope , Jon remembered ; if he had fallen , what chance was there that Mormont 's letter would be heeded ?  
He curled his hand into a fist .  
`` Perhaps they never got my letter .  
I fear we count for less than nothing in King 's Landing .  
They tell us what they want us to know , and that 's little enough . ''  
And you tell me what you want me to know , and that 's less , Jon thought resentfully .  
His brother Robb had called the banners and ridden south to war , yet no word of that had been breathed to him ... save by Samwell Tarly , who 'd read the letter to Maester Aemon and whispered its contents to Jon that night in secret , all the time saying how he should n't .  
Doubtless they thought his brother 's war was none of his concern .  
No matter how often Jon told himself that his place was here now , with his new brothers on the Wall , he still felt craven .  
`` Snow , how soon does Maester Aemon say you 'll have use of that hand back ? ''  
`` I had the rest made anew .  
Carefully he pulled it from its scabbard and raised it level with his eyes .  
Yet the wolf sword actually seemed lighter than the blades he had wielded before .  
When Jon turned it sideways , he could see the ripples in the dark steel where the metal had been folded back on itself again and again .  
His father had let him handle Ice often enough ; he knew the look , the feel .  
I wielded it in my day and passed it on to my son when I took the black . ''  
The edges glimmered faintly as they kissed the light .  
`` Your son- '' `` My son brought dishonor to House Mormont , but at least he had the grace to leave the sword behind when he fled .  
My sister returned it to my keeping , but the very sight of it reminded me of Jorah 's shame , so I put it aside and thought no more of it until we found it in the ashes of my bedchamber .  
When Jon had been Bran 's age , he had dreamed of doing great deeds , as boys always did .  
The details of his feats changed with every dreaming , but quite often he imagined saving his father 's life .  
Afterward Lord Eddard would declare that Jon had proved himself a true Stark , and place Ice in his hand .  
Even then he had known it was only a child 's folly ; no bastard could ever hope to wield a father 's sword .  
I have no right to this , he thought , no more than to ke .  
`` My lord , you honor me , but- '' `` Spare me your but 's , boy , '' Lord Mormont interrupted .  
`` I would not be sitting here were it not for you and that beast of yours .  
You fought bravely ... and more to the point , you thought quickly .  
Truly , the gods had heard Jon 's prayer that night ; the fire had caught in the dead man 's clothing and consumed him as if his flesh were candle wax and his bones old dry wood .  
Jon had only to close his eyes to see the thing staggering across the solar , crashing against the furniture and flailing at the flames .  
Whatever demonic force moved Othor had been driven out by the flames ; the twisted thing they had found in the ashes had been no more than cooked meat and charred bone .  
Yet in his nightmare he faced it again ... and this time the burning corpse wore Lord Eddard 's features .  
Jon did not understand why that should be or what it might mean , but it frightened him more than he could say .  
The soft leather gave beneath Jon 's fingers , as if the sword were molding itself to his grip already .  
He knew he should be honored , and he was , and yet ... He is not my father .  
I will not forget him , no matter how many swords they give me .  
Yet he could scarcely tell Lord Mormont that it was another man 's sword he dreamt of ... `` I want no courtesies either , '' Mormont said , `` so thank me no thanks .  
He was clumsy and uncomfortable with his left hand , yet even so the steel seemed to flow through the air , as if it had a will of its own .  
`` I suppose they do .  
You 'll want to wear that over the shoulder , I imagine .  
It 's too long for the hip , at least until you 've put on a few inches .  
He 's on his way from the Shadow Tower to assume the duties of master-at-arms .  
`` Because I sent him , why do you think ?  
He 's bringing the hand your Ghost tore off the end of Jafer Flowers 's wrist .  
I have commanded him to take ship to King 's Landing and lay it before this boy king .  
`` Crow. `` Jon thought the raven sounded faintly indignant .  
Valor makes up for a fair amount of folly , but you 're not a boy anymore , however many years you 've seen .  
That 's a man 's sword you have there , and it will take a man to wield her .  
And tell Hobb that if he sends me boiled mutton again I 'm like to boil him .  
He stroked the raven 's head with his thumb , and the bird made a contented quorking sound .  
The guards smiled at him from their niches as he wound his way down the turret stair , carrying the sword in his good hand .  
Jon made himself smile back at them , but his heart was not in it .  
He knew he should be pleased , yet he did not feel it .  
A half dozen of his friends were lurking outside when he left the King 's Tower , where Lord Commander Mormont now made his residence .  
They 'd hung a target on the granary doors , so they could seem to be honing their skills as archers , but he knew lurkers when he saw them .  
No sooner did he emerge than Pyp called out , `` Well , come about , let 's have a look . ''  
`` I helped Pate carve the stone for the pommel , '' the builder said , `` and your friend Sam bought the garnets in Mole 's Town . ''  
`` Rudge has been helping Donal Noye in the forge .  
He was there when the Old Bear brought him the burnt blade . ''  
Jon unsheathed Longclaw and showed it to them , turning it this way and that so they could admire it .  
`` I heard of a man who had a razor made of Valyrian steel , '' declared Toad .  
`` He cut his head off trying to shave . ''  
The others laughed , and even Jon had to smile .  
The fire he 'd started had not , in truth , burned down that formidable stone tower , but it had done a fair job of gutting the interior of the top two floors , where the Old Bear had his chambers .  
No one seemed to mind that very much , since it had also destroyed Othor 's murderous corpse .  
The other wight , the one-handed thing that had once been a ranger named Jafer Flowers , had also been destroyed , cut near to pieces by a dozen swords ... but not before it had slain Ser Jaremy Rykker and four other men .  
Ser Jaremy had finished the job of hacking its head off , yet had died all the same when the headless corpse pulled his own dagger from its sheath and buried it in his bowels .  
`` I need to see Hobb about the Old Bear 's supper , '' he announced brusquely , sliding Longclaw back into its scabbard .  
It was not their fault , truly ; they had not had to face Othor , they had not seen the pale glow of those dead blue eyes , had not felt the cold of those dead black fingers .  
He turned away from them abruptly and strode off , sullen .  
Pyp called after him , but Jon paid him no mind .  
They had moved him back to his old cell in tumbledown Hardin 's Tower after the fire , and it was there he returned .  
Ghost was curled up asleep beside the door , but he lifted his head at the sound of Jon 's boots .  
Jon knelt , scratched his ear , and showed him the pommel of the sword .  
They had been riding off with the other pups , but Jon had heard a noise and turned back , and there he was , white fur almost invisible against the drifts .  
He was all alone , he thought , apart from the others in the litter .  
His cheeks were red , and he was wrapped in a heavy fur cloak that made him look ready for hibernation .  
If the others had known , no doubt Sam did too .  
Lord Randyll let me hold it a few times , but it always scared me .  
Dickon will have it now . ''  
`` I ah ... Maester Aemon wants to see you . ''  
`` You told him , did n't you ? ''  
`` You told him that you told me . ''  
`` I ... he ... Jon , I did n't want to ... he asked ... I mean I think he knew , he sees things no one else sees ... '' `` He 's blind , '' Jon pointed out forcefully , disgusted .  
He left Sam standing there , openmouthed and quivering .  
He found Maester Aemon up in the rookery , feeding the ravens .  
`` Sam said you wanted me ? ''  
It makes them strong , and I fear they relish the taste of blood .  
`` Dywen says the wildlings call us crows , '' he said uncertainty .  
Jon wished he understood what they were talking about , and why .  
If the old man had something to say to him , why could n't he just say it ?  
`` Jon , did you ever wonder why the men of the Night 's Watch take no wives and father no children ? ''  
That did not sound right to Jon , yet he said nothing .  
`` Tell me , Jon , if the day should ever come when your lord father must needs choose between honor on the one hand and those he loves on the other , what would he do ? ''  
He wanted to say that Lord Eddard would never dishonor himself , not even for love , yet inside a small sly voice whispered , He fathered a bastard , where was the honor in that ?  
They came from a hundred quarrelsome kingdoms , and they knew times may change , but men do not .  
So they pledged as well that the Night 's Watch would take no part in the battles of the realms it guarded .  
When Aegon slew Black Harren and claimed his kingdom , Harren 's brother was Lord Commander on the Wall , with ten thousand swords to hand .  
In the days when the Seven Kingdoms were seven kingdoms , not a generation passed that three or four of them were not at war .  
It was as if he were seeing right into his heart .  
Even if I am his bastard , he 's still my father ... '' Maester Aemon sighed .  
`` Have you heard nothing I 've told you , Jon ?  
`` Three times the gods saw fit to test my vows .  
I was helpless as a suckling babe , yet still it grieved me to sit forgotten as they cut down my brother 's poor grandson , and his son , and even the little children ... '' Jon was shocked to see the shine of tears in the old man 's eyes .  
In my order , we put aside our house names when we take our vows and don the collar . ''  
`` My father was Maekar , the First of his Name , and my brother Aegon reigned after him in my stead .  
My grandfather named me for Prince Aemon the Dragonknight , who was his uncle , or his father , depending on which tale you believe .  
Aemon , he called me ... '' `` Aemon ... Targaryen ? ''  
So you see , Jon , I do know ... and knowing , I will not tell you stay or go .  
Dying horses lifted their heads and screamed at her as she rode past .  
Khal Ogo 's riders had done that , Dany knew ; no man of Drogo 's khalasar would be such a fool as to waste his arrows on sheep when there were shepherds yet to kill .  
The women and children of Ogo 's khalasar walked with a sullen pride , even in defeat and bondage ; they were slaves now , but they seemed not to fear it .  
Dany pitied them ; she remembered what terror felt like .  
Ser Jorah said the people of this country named themselves the Lhazareen , but the Dothraki called them haesh rakhi , the Lamb Men .  
Once Dany might have taken them for Dothraki , for they had the same copper skin and almond-shaped eyes .  
They were herders of sheep and eaters of vegetables , and Khal Drogo said they belonged south of the river bend .  
A rider cut him off and turned him , and the others boxed him in , cracking their whips in his face , running him this way and that .  
Another snared his ankle with a lash and sent him sprawling .  
The Dothraki had mocked him for a coward when he donned his armor , but the knight had spit insults right back in their teeth , tempers had flared , longsword had clashed with arakh , and the rider whose taunts had been loudest had been left behind to bleed to death .  
Ser Jorah lifted the visor of his flat-topped greathelm as he rode up .  
Khal Ogo first , and then the son , Fogo , who became khal when Ogo fell .  
His bloodriders cut the bells from their hair , and now Khal Drogo 's every step rings louder than before . ''  
Ogo and his son had shared the high bench with her lord husband at the naming feast where Viserys had been crowned , but that was in Vaes Dothrak , beneath the Mother of Mountains , where every rider was a brother and all quarrels were put aside .  
Ogo 's khalasar had been attacking the town when Khal Drogo caught him .  
She wondered what the Lamb Men had thought , when they first saw the dust of their horses from atop those cracked- mud walls .  
I am the blood of the dragon , Daenerys Targaryen reminded herself as she turned her face away .  
She pressed her lips together and hardened her heart and rode on toward the gate .  
Khal Drogo would drive them downriver to one of the towns on Slaver 's Bay .  
She wanted to cry , but she told herself that she must be strong .  
`` I 've told the khal he ought to make for Meereen , '' Ser Jorah said .  
Illyrio writes that they had a plague last year , so the brothels are paying double for healthy young girls , and triple for boys under ten .  
If enough children survive the journey , the gold will buy us all the ships we need , and hire men to sail them . ''  
Dany 's hand clenched hard around the reins , and she turned the silver 's head .  
`` You heard my words , '' she said .  
Jorah Mormont spurred his horse closer .  
`` If her wailing offends your ears , Khaleesi , Jhogo will bring you her tongue . ''  
He drew his arakh .  
`` I will not have her harmed , '' Dany said .  
`` I claim her .  
Do as I command you , or Khal Drogo will know the reason why . ''  
Quaro and the others followed his lead , the bells in their hair chiming .  
Dany heard Jhogo shout .  
Laughter turned to curses as the horsemen reached for weapons , but by then Quaro and Aggo and Rakharo were there .  
She saw Aggo point across the road to where she sat upon her silver .  
All the while the man atop the lamb girl continued to plunge in and out of her , so intent on his pleasure that he seemed unaware of what was going on around him .  
The Dothraki went sprawling in the mud , bounced up with a knife in hand , and died with Aggo 's arrow through his throat .  
Mormont pulled the girl off the pile of corpses and wrapped her in his blood-spattered cloak .  
He led her across the road to Dany .  
You do not have a rider 's look , perhaps she will not fear you .  
Many of the houses were afire , and the jaqqa rhan had been about their grisly work .  
Each time Dany reined up , sent her khas to make an end to it , and claimed the victim as slave .  
One of them , a thick-bodied , flat-nosed woman of forty years , blessed Dany haltingly in the Common Tongue , but from the others she got only flat black stares .  
They were suspicious of her , she realized with sadness ; afraid that she had saved them for some worse fate .  
Jhiqui helped Dany dismount ; she had grown clumsy as her belly grew larger and heavier .  
`` I kill him for it , and Ogo too . ''  
He turned his head , the bells in his braid ringing softly .  
`` Is Ogo you hear , and Fogo his khalakka , who was khal when I slew him . ''  
He spoke to Haggo , a stream of angry Dothraki too fast for Dany to understand .  
The huge bloodrider gave her a heavy look before he turned to his khal `` This one is Mago , who rides in the khas of Ko Jhaqo .  
He says the khaleesi has taken his spoils , a daughter of the lambs who was his to mount . ''  
Dany told him what she had done , in his own tongue so the khal would understand her better , her words simple and direct .  
`` If your warriors would mount these women , let them take them gently and keep them for wives .  
Give them places in the khalasar and let them bear you sons . ''  
`` It is my son inside her , the stallion who mounts the world , filling her with his fire .  
Ride slowly , Ootho ... if the mother does not burn you where you sit , the son will trample you into the mud .  
He started to reach out a hand to Daenerys , but as he lifted his arm Drogo grimaced in sudden pain and turned his head .  
The wounds were worse than Ser Jorah had led her to believe .  
`` The khal sent the hairless men away , Khaleesi , '' old Cohollo assured her .  
Dany saw the bloodrider had taken a wound himself ; a deep gash in his left shoulder .  
`` Jhogo , seek out these eunuchs and bring them here at once . ''  
Aggo grabbed her hair and pressed a knife to her throat .  
Aggo looked from her to Qotho .  
He lowered his knife .  
The woman spoke Dothraki well .  
The robes she wore had once been the lightest and finest of woolens , rich with embroidery , but now they were mud- caked and bloody and ripped .  
`` I am named Find Mirri Maz Duur .  
Dany remembered the word from a terrifying story that Jhiqui had told her one night by the cookfire .  
`` Blood of my blood , I say kill this maegi and wait for the hairless men . ''  
`` Where did you learn your healing , Mirri Maz Duur ? ''  
When I was younger and more fair , I went in caravan to Asshai by the Shadow , to learn from their mages .  
Ships from many lands come to Asshai , so I lingered long to study the healing ways of distant peoples .  
A moonsinger of the Jogos Nhai gifted me with her birthing songs , a woman of your own riding people taught me the magics of grass and corn and horse , and a maester from the Sunset Lands opened a body for me and showed me all the secrets that hide beneath the skin . ''  
`` Marwyn , he named himself , '' the woman replied in the Common Tongue .  
The Seven Lands , he said .  
He taught me this speech . ''  
`` Tell me , Godswife , what did this Marwyn wear about his neck ? ''  
`` The Great Shepherd sent me to earth to heal his lambs , wherever I might find them . ''  
I will not have her harmed . ''  
Khal Drogo waved him away .  
She took some of his weight as they walked toward the great mud temple .  
Dany commanded Ser Jorah and the warriors of her khas to guard the entrance and make certain no one set the building afire while they were still inside .  
He drew his skinning knife and showed her the blade .  
Dany felt she could trust this old , plainfaced woman with her flat nose ; she had saved her from the hard hands of her rapers , after all .  
Hold him still while I draw the arrow from his flesh . ''  
She let the rags of her gown fall to her waist as she opened a carved chest , and busied herself with bottles and boxes , knives and needles .  
She heated a flagon of wine to boiling on the brazier , and poured it over his wounds .  
Khal Drogo cursed her , but he did not move .  
She bound the arrow wound with a plaster of wet leaves and turned to the gash on his breast , smearing it with a pale green paste before she pulled the flap of skin back in place .  
When she was done she painted the skin with red ointment , covered it with more leaves , and bound the breast in a ragged piece of lambskin .  
`` You must say the prayers I give you and keep the lambskin in place for ten days and ten nights , '' she said .  
He flexed his arm and scowled .  
`` I spit on pain and drink what I like .  
`` I would have you attend me when he comes , if you would . ''  
`` Moon of my life , you do not ask a slave , you tell her .  
Haggo followed the khal from the temple , but Qotho lingered long enough to favor Mirri Maz Duur with a stare .  
Tyrion arrived late , saddlesore , and sour , all too vividly aware of how amusing he must look as he waddled up the slope to his father .  
`` I hope your savages do not share your reluctance , else we 've wasted our good steel on them . ''  
When he had told Lefford he needed arms and armor to equip the three hundred men Ulf had fetched down out of the foothills , you would have thought he 'd asked the man to turn his virgin daughters over to their pleasure .  
`` He still had that wood-axe of his strapped to his back . ''  
`` We had a thought to put you and your wildlings in the vanguard when we come to battle . ''  
Ser Kevan seldom `` had a thought '' that Lord Tywin had not had first .  
Now he lowered it .  
Either his lord father had a new respect for Tyrion 's abilities , or he 'd decided to rid himself of his embarrassing get for good .  
`` Let me tell you how ferocious they are .  
So today as we made camp three Stone Crows seized the man and opened his throat for him .  
Bronn managed to keep Shagga from chopping off the dead man 's cock , which was fortunate , but even so Ulf is demanding blood money , which Conn and Shagga refuse to pay . ''  
His brother Jaime had always been able to make men follow him eagerly , and die for him if need be .  
`` If you have no other command to offer me , I 'll lead your van . ''  
Lord Tywin studied his dwarf son .  
`` I find I am not hungry after all , '' he said , climbing awkwardly off the bench .  
`` Pray excuse me , my lords . ''  
Lord Tywin inclined his head , dismissing him .  
He was conscious of their eyes on his back as he waddled down the hill .  
He hoped they all choked on their suckling pigs .  
In amongst the men and the horses and the trees , it was easy to get lost , and Tyrion did .  
He caught the scent of garlic sausage , spiced and savory , so tempting it made his empty stomach growl .  
When he heard the deep rumble of Shagga 's laughter booming through the dark , he followed it to the Stone Crows in their small corner of the night .  
Conn son of Coratt waved a tankard of ale .  
Each clan had its own cookfire ; Black Ears did not eat with Stone Crows , Stone Crows did not eat with Moon Brothers , and no one ate with Burned Men .  
Lord Tywin had sent him a groom and a body servant to see to his needs , and even insisted he take a squire .  
Tyrion studied her face for a moment , before he spied fishbones in the ashes .  
At the moment , he did not have the patience to try and coax a thought out of the lad , whom he suspected had been inflicted on him as a cruel jape .  
he asked Bronn .  
`` It is , m'lord , and she can speak for herself , if it please you . ''  
He cocked his head to one side .  
`` I am Tyrion , of House Lannister .  
Men call me the Imp . ''  
Men call me ... often . ''  
Bronn laughed , and Tyrion had to smile .  
He lifted the flap and held it for her .  
At the end of the day 's march , Tyrion had sent Bronn back to find him a likely whore .  
If she has n't , wash her .  
Be certain that you tell her who I am , and warn her of what I am . ''  
There was a look the girls got in their eyes sometimes when they first beheld the lordling they 'd been hired to pleasure ... a took that Tyrion Lannister did not ever care to see again .  
He lifted the candle and looked her over .  
Gold I have in plenty , and you 'll find me generous ... but I 'll want more from you than what you 've got between your legs , though I 'll want that too .  
You 'll share my tent , pour my wine , laugh at my jests , rub the ache from my legs after each day 's ride ... and whether I keep you a day or a year , for so long as we are together you will take no other men into your bed . ''  
She reached down to the hem of her thin roughspun gown and pulled it up over her head in one smooth motion , tossing it aside .  
`` If he do n't put down that candle , m'lord will burn his fingers . ''  
Tyrion put down the candle , took her hand in his , and pulled her gently to him .  
Her mouth tasted of honey and cloves , and her fingers were deft and practiced as they found the fastenings of his clothes .  
When he entered her , she welcomed him with whispered endearments and small , shuddering gasps of pleasure .  
Tyrion suspected her delight was feigned , but she did it so well that it did not matter .  
He had needed her , Tyrion realized afterward , as she lay quietly in his arms .  
It had been nigh on a year since he 'd lain with a woman , since before he had set out for Winterfell in company with his brother and King Robert .  
He could well die on the morrow or the day after , and if he did , he would sooner go to his grave thinking of Shae than of his lord father , Lysa Arryn , or the Lady Catelyn Stark .  
He could feel the softness of her breasts pressed against his arm as she lay beside him .  
`` A song I learned as a boy , that 's all .  
When her eyes were closed and her breathing deep and steady , Tyrion slid out from beneath her , gently , so as not to disturb her sleep .  
Naked , he crawled outside , stepped over his squire , and walked around behind his tent to make water .  
`` Where did you find her ? ''  
Tyrion asked him as he pissed .  
`` I took her from a knight .  
`` I seem to recall saying find me a whore , not make me an enemy . ''  
`` Good for me you 're not your father , '' Bronn replied .  
Did you perchance note the name of this knight you took her from ?  
Bronn rose , cat-quick and cat-graceful , turning his sword in his hand .  
`` See that I survive this battle , and you can name your reward . ''  
He 's put me in the van . ''  
`` I find you oddly cheering , '' Tyrion said .  
Bronn sheathed his sword .  
When Tyrion returned to his tent , Shae rolled onto her elbow and murmured sleepily , `` I woke and m'lord was gone . ''  
He asked her about the man Bronn had taken her from , and she named the minor retainer of an insignificant lordling .  
`` You need not fear his like , m'lord , '' the girl said , her fingers busy at his cock .  
She mounted him then , and for a time , she almost made him believe it .  
Groggy , he sat up and threw back the blanket .  
I thought Stark was yet a day 's march away . ''  
Shae shook her head , lost .  
Groaning , Tyrion lurched to his feet and pushed his way outside , shouting for his squire .  
When he found Pod , the boy was snoring softly .  
Tyrion gave him a sharp poke in the ribs with his toe .  
Some of it was ornate , some plain ; not a bit of it matched , or fit as it should .  
Shae helped Pod with the buckles and clasps .  
Shae lowered the greathelm down over his head , and Pod fastened it to his gorget .  
Tyrion buckled on his belt , heavy with the weight of shortsword and dirk .  
He needed help to mount ; he felt as though he weighed a thousand stone .  
Lastly they gave him his battle-axe .  
He saluted her with his axe , wheeled his horse about , and trotted off .  
Did his brother Jaime ever contemplate death before a battle ?  
The rising sun was burning off the drifting tendrils of fog as Tyrion led them off .  
The mountain men fell in behind him , each clan arrayed behind its own leaders .  
In the dawn light , the army of Lord Tywin Lannister unfolded like an iron rose , thorns gleaming .  
Ser Kevan had raised his standards above the kingsroad .  
His lord father took his place on the hill where he had slept .  
Lord Tywin almost always chose to command the reserve ; he would take the high ground and watch the battle unfold below him , committing his forces when and where they were needed most .  
His greatcloak was sewn from countless layers of cloth-of-gold , so heavy that it barely stirred even when he charged , so large that its drape covered most of his stallion 's hindquarters when he took the saddle .  
Their mate , a male with a magnificent mane , reclined atop Lord Tywin 's greathelm , one paw raking the air as he roared .  
He remembered Robb Stark as he had last seen him , in his father 's high seat in the Great Hall of Winterfell , a sword naked and shining in his hands .  
He remembered how the direwolves had come at him out of the shadows , and suddenly he could see them again , snarling and snapping , teeth bared in his face .  
Did he think to take them unawares while they slept ?  
He saw the standard first , three black dogs on a yellow field .  
`` I confess , I had not considered it in that light . ''  
He was pointing men into position with his blade , a two- handed greatsword that Ser Gregor waved about with one hand as a lesser man might wave a dagger .  
If they dirty our waters , hack off their cocks and feed them to the fishes . ''  
He smashed them together and made them ring .  
The Burned Men did not shout , but they rattled their swords and spears .  
He watched Ser Gregor as the Mountain rode up and down the line , shouting and gesticulating .  
Bronn drew his longsword , and suddenly the enemy was there before them , boiling over the tops of the hills , advancing with measured tread behind a wall of shields and pikes .  
Gods be damned , look at them all , Tyrion thought , though he knew his father had more men on the field .  
He glimpsed the bull moose of the Hornwoods , the Karstark sunburst , Lord Cerwyn 's battle-axe , and the mailed fist of the Glovers ... and the twin towers of Frey , blue on grey .  
The white of House Stark was seen everywhere , the grey direwolves seeming to run and leap as the banners swirled and streamed from the high staffs .  
Haroooooooooooooooooooooooo , it cried , its voice as long and low and chilling as a cold wind from the north .  
, brazen and defiant , yet it seemed to Tyrion that they sounded somehow smaller , more anxious .  
He could feel a fluttering in his bowels , a queasy liquid feeling ; he hoped he was not going to die sick .  
As the horns died away , a hissing filled the air ; a vast flight of arrows arched up from his right , where the archers stood flanking the road .  
The northerners broke into a run , shouting as they came , but the Lannister arrows fell on them like hail , hundreds of arrows , thousands , and shouts turned to screams as men stumbled and went down .  
Tyrion put his spurs to his horse and added one more voice to the cacophony , and the van surged forward .  
he shouted at his clansmen as they rode .  
He was still leading when they broke a canter , until Chella gave a bloodcurdling shriek and galloped past him , and Shagga howled and followed .  
Tyrion saw a dozen men go down .  
Spears thrust at him from every side , but the shield wall broke beneath his weight .  
Shagga went bursting through the gap before the shields could close , other Stone Crows hard behind him .  
He glimpsed Timett son of Timett vault free as his mount died under him in full stride , saw a Moon Brother impaled on a Karstark spear , watched Conn 's horse shatter a man 's ribs with a kick .  
A flight of arrows descended on them ; where they came from he could not say , but they fell on Stark and Lannister alike , rattling off armor or finding flesh .  
Tyrion saw Shagga catch a spearman full in the chest as the fool came on at a run , saw his axe shear through mail and leather and muscle and lungs .  
The man was dead on his feet , the axehead lodged in his breast , yet Shagga rode on , cleaving a shield in two with his left-hand battle-axe while the corpse was bouncing and stumbling bonelessly along on his right .  
The man danced back for another try , but Tyrion spurred his horse and rode right over him .  
Bronn was surrounded by three foes , but he lopped the head off the first spear that came at him , and raked his blade across a second man 's face on his backslash .  
He wheeled and raced after the thrower , but the man raised his own shield over his head .  
Chips of oak went flying , until the northerner lost his feet and slipped , failing flat on his back with his shield on top of him .  
He was below the reach of Tyrion 's axe and it was too much bother to dismount , so he left him there and rode after another man , taking him from behind with a sweeping downcut that sent a jolt of impact up his arm .  
Somehow he had gotten turned around .  
A spear had entered his belly and come out through his back .  
He was past any help , but when Tyrion saw one of the northerners run up and make a grab for his reins , he charged .  
Tyrion aimed a swipe at his face , but the tall man slammed it aside .  
Tyrion barely got his shield up in time , and the wood seemed to explode inward under the force of the blow .  
the swordsman bellowed , shoving in close and whanging Tyrion across the temple so hard his head rang .  
The blade made a hideous scraping sound as he drew it back over the steel .  
As he wrenched the blade free , he heard a shout .  
He clawed for his sword , but the morningstar was circling again , coming at his face .  
He did not recall hitting the ground , but when he looked up there was only sky above him .  
He rolled onto his side and tried to find his feet , but pain shuddered through him and the world throbbed .  
He made a croaking sound and fought his way to his knees , fumbling for a weapon .  
Tyrion lurched to his feet , driving his head into the horse 's belly .  
It tried to twist away from the agony , a shower of blood and viscera poured down over Tyrion 's face , and the horse fell like an avalanche .  
The next he knew , his visor was packed with mud and something was crushing his foot .  
Fumbling at his belt with his good hand , he drew a sword and flung it at Tyrion 's feet .  
Pain hammered through his elbow when he moved his arm .  
No one remained on his part of the field save a large number of corpses .  
He saw that Ser Kevan had brought up his center in support of the van ; his huge mass of pikemen had pushed the northerners back against the hills .  
As he watched , the air filled with arrows again , and the men behind the oak wall crumbled beneath the murderous fire .  
The sound of hooves coming up behind him made him whirl , though he could scarcely lift the sword he held for the agony in his elbow .  
`` I have n't lost it .  
Do you see my horse ? ''  
By the time they found it , the trumpets had sounded again and Lord Tywin 's reserve came sweeping up along the river .  
Tyrion watched his father fly past , the crimson-and-gold banner of Lannister rippling over his head as he thundered across the field .  
With his elbow swollen and throbbing inside his armor , Tyrion made no attempt to join the slaughter .  
He and Bronn went looking for his men .  
Ulf son of Umar lay in a pool of congealing blood , his arm gone at the elbow , a dozen of his Moon Brothers sprawled around him .  
Tyrion thought they were both dead , but as he dismounted , Shagga opened his eyes and said , `` They have killed Conn son of Coratt . ''  
He plucked them out one by one , cursing the holes they had made in his layers of mail and leather , and yowling like a babe at the few that had buried themselves in his flesh .  
Chella daughter of Cheyk rode up as they were yanking arrows out of Shagga , and showed them four ears she had taken .  
Timett they discovered looting the bodies of the slain with his Burned Men .  
He left the living to look after the dead , sent Bronn to take charge of his captive knight , and went alone in search of his father .  
His father 's eyes were on him , pale green flecked with gold , so cool they gave Tyrion a chill .  
`` Did it upset your plans ?  
We were supposed to be butchered , were we not ? ''  
Lord Tywin drained his cup , his face expressionless .  
I 'd hoped that if he saw our left collapse , he might plunge into the gap , eager for a rout .  
Once he was fully committed , Ser Kevan 's pikes would wheel and take him in the flank , driving him into the river while I brought up the reserve . ''  
`` And you thought it best to place me in the midst of this carnage , yet keep me ignorant of your plans . ''  
Tyrion pulled off his steel gauntlet and let it fall to the ground , wincing at the pain that stabbed up his arm .  
`` The Stark boy proved more cautious than I expected for one of his years , '' Lord Tywin admitted , `` but a victory is a victory .  
Tywin Lannister rose to his feet as Ser Addam Marbrand leapt down off his courser .  
Ser Addam dropped to one knee , a rangy man with dark copper hair that fell to his shoulders , armored in burnished bronzed steel with the fiery tree of his House etched black on his breastplate .  
Lord Hornwood is dead , and I fear Roose Bolton has escaped us . ''  
They say he crossed at the Twins with the great part of his horse , riding hard for Riverrun . ''  
Moonlight winked on the tumbling waters of the stream below as it wound its rocky way along the floor of the valley .  
Now and again , she heard the chink of spears , the faint metallic slither of chain mail , but even those sounds were muffled .  
He had asked for the honor of protecting her in the battle to come ; it was his right , as Winterfell 's captain of guards , and Robb had not refused it to him .  
She had thirty men around her , charged to keep her unharmed and see her safely home to Winterfell if the fighting went against them .  
Robb had wanted fifty ; Catelyn had insisted that ten would be enough , that he would need every sword for the fight .  
When it came , she knew it would mean death .  
And she would , standing patiently on the battlements of Riverrun as the waters of the Red Fork and the Tumblestone flowed by .  
He did not always come when he said he would , and days would ofttimes pass as Catelyn stood her vigil , peering out between crenels and through arrow loops until she caught a glimpse of Lord Hoster on his old brown gelding , trotting along the rivershore toward the landing .  
`` Did you watch for me ? ''  
he 'd ask when he bent to bug her .  
Brandon Stark had bid her wait as well .  
Yet when the day came at last , it was his brother Eddard who stood beside her in the sept. Ned had lingered scarcely a fortnight with his new bride before he too had ridden off to war with promises on his lips .  
At least he had left her with more than words ; he had given her a son .  
Nine moons had waxed and waned , and Robb had been born in Riverrun while his father still warred in the south .  
She had brought him forth in blood and pain , not knowing whether Ned would ever see him .  
He had been so small ... And now it was for Robb that she waited ... for Robb , and for Jaime Lannister , the gilded knight who men said had never learned to wait at all .  
And he had wagered their lives and their best hope of victory on the truth of what he said .  
If Robb was frightened , he gave no sign of it .  
Catelyn watched her son as he moved among the men , touching one on the shoulder , sharing a jest with another , helping a third to gentle an anxious horse .  
His armor clinked softly when he moved .  
Catelyn watched a breeze stir his auburn hair , so like her own , and wondered when her son had grown so big .  
Let him grow taller , she asked the gods .  
Let him grow as tall as his father , and hold his own son in his arms .  
As she watched him , this tall young man with the new beard and the direwolf prowling at his heels , all she could see was the babe they had laid at her breast at Riverrun , so long ago .  
Robb had given the Blackfish three hundred picked men , and sent them ahead to screen his march .  
We 've seen a few of his outriders , but those that saw us did not live to tell of it .  
`` The Kingslayer has us three to one , '' said Galbart Glover .  
Their host was greater than it had been when they left the Twins .  
Lord Jason Mallister had brought his power out from Seagard to join them as they swept around the headwaters of the Blue Fork and galloped south , and others had crept forth as well , hedge knights and small lords and masterless men-at-arms who had fled north when her brother Edmure 's army was shattered beneath the walls of Riverrun .  
They had driven their horses as hard as they dared to reach this place before Jaime Lannister had word of their coming , and now the hour was at hand .  
Catelyn watched her son mount up .  
Olyvar Frey held his horse for him , Lord Walder 's son , two years older than Robb , and ten years younger and more anxious .  
He strapped Robb 's shield in place and handed up his helm .  
When he lowered it over the face she loved so well , a tall young knight sat on his grey stallion where her son had been .  
When Robb turned his head to look at her , she could see only black inside his visor .  
`` Father says you should let the men see you before a battle . ''  
she wondered , yet she kept her silence and made herself smile for him .  
Robb turned the big grey stallion and walked him slowly away from her , Grey Wind shadowing his steps .  
When he 'd forced Catelyn to accept her protectors , she had insisted that he be guarded as well , and the lords bannermen had agreed .  
Many of their sons had clamored for the honor of riding with the Young Wolf , as they had taken to calling him .  
Torrhen Karstark and his brother Eddard were among his thirty , and Patrek Mallister , Smalljon Umber , Daryn Hornwood , Theon Greyjoy , no less than five of Walder Frey 's vast brood , along with older men like Ser Wendel Manderly and Robin Flint .  
And if it comes to that , she wondered , will thiny be enough ?  
She knew their call well enough , from her years at Winterfell .  
They are coming , Catelyn thought .  
She nodded as the woods grew still around them .  
She heard more laughter , a shouted command , splashing as they crossed and recrossed the little stream .  
And then at last she saw him ... only for an instant , framed between the branches of the trees as she looked down at the valley floor , yet she knew it was him .  
The moonlight had silvered his armor and the gold of his hair , and turned his crimson cloak to black .  
He was there and he was gone again , his silvery armor obscured by the trees once more .  
Nodding , Robb had studied the map her uncle had drawn him .  
The sound seemed to go right through Catelyn Stark , and she found herself shivering .  
HAAroooooooooooooooooooooooo came the answer from the far ridge as the Greatjon winded his own horn .  
The whispering wood let out its breath all at once , as the bowmen Robb had hidden in the branches of the trees let fly their arrows and the night erupted with the screams of men and horses .  
she heard Robb shout as the arrows sighed again .  
He moved away from her at a trot , leading his men downhill .  
Catelyn sat on her horse , unmoving , with Hal Mollen and her guard around her , and she waited as she had waited before , for Brandon and Ned and her father .  
Yet when she looked across the valley to the far ridge , she saw the Greatjon 's riders emerge from the darkness beneath the trees .  
They were in a long line , an endless line , and as they burst from the wood there was an instant , the smallest part of a heartbeat , when all Catelyn saw was the moonlight on the points of their lances , as if a thousand willowisps were coming down the ridge , wreathed in silver flame .  
Then she blinked , and they were only men , rushing down to kill or die .  
Afterward , she could not claim she had seen the battle .  
When she realized there was no more to see , she closed her eyes and listened .  
Men shouted curses and begged for mercy , and got it ( or not ) , and lived ( or died ) .  
Once she heard Robb 's voice , as clear as if he 'd been standing at her side , calling , `` To me !  
Robb came back to her on a different horse , riding a piebald gelding in the place of the grey stallion he had taken down into the valley .  
Yet when he came closer , Catelyn saw that his mailed glove and the sleeve of his surcoat were black with blood .  
Robb lifted his hand , opened and closed his fingers .  
`` This is ... Torrhen 's blood , perhaps , or He shook his head .  
Lannister raised his head .  
`` I would offer you my sword , but I seem to have mislaid it . ''  
`` It is not your sword I want , ser , '' she told him .  
`` I have mislaid them as well , I fear . ''  
`` Why should Lord Karstark want him dead ? ''  
Robb looked away into the woods , with the same brooding look that Ned often got .  
`` He ... he killed them ... '' `` Lord Karstark 's sons , '' Galbart Glover explained .  
`` When he saw that he was lost , he rallied his retainers and fought his way up the valley , hoping to reach Lord Robb and cut him down .  
`` He mislaid his sword in Eddard Karstark 's neck , after he took Torrhen 's hand off and split Daryn Hornwood 's skull open , '' Robb said .  
`` Your men did what they were sworn to do , Robb .  
I vow , the Lannisters lost ten men for every one of ours that fell .  
Lord Westerling , Lord Banefort , Ser Garth Greenfield , Lord Estren , Ser Tytos Brax , Mallor the Dornishman ... and three Lannisters besides Jaime , Lord Tywin 's own nephews , two of his sister 's sons and one of his dead brother 's ... '' `` And Lord Tywin ? ''  
`` Have you perchance taken Lord Tywin , Theon ? ''  
Robb raised his head and pushed his hair back out of his eyes .  
We still have Riverrun . ''  
The flies circled Khal Drogo slowly , their wings buzzing , a low thrum at the edge of hearing that filled Dany with dread .  
She had never seen him miss .  
Then his fingers would tighten , and when he opened his hand again , the fly would be only a red smear on his palm .  
Now one crept across the rump of his stallion , and the horse gave an angry flick of its tail to brush it away .  
Mirri Maz Duur 's poultice had itched and burned , and he had torn it off six days ago , cursing her for a maegi .  
He 'd been drinking it heavily these past three days ; when it was not poppy wine , it was fermented mare 's milk or pepper beer .  
Yet he scarcely touched his food , and he thrashed and groaned in the night .  
Rhaego was restless in her belly , kicking like a stallion , yet even that did not stir Drogo 's interest as it had .  
Every morning her eyes found fresh lines of pain on his face when he woke from his troubled sleep .  
Since they had mounted up at dawn , he had said not a word .  
When she spoke , she got no answer but a grunt , and not even that much since midday .  
Dany pressed her heels into her silver and rode closer .  
Dany gasped , `` Drogo. `` Clumsily she reached over and touched his arm .  
The flies scattered for a heartbeat , and then circled back to settle on him where he lay .  
Drogo cried out in pain as Dany knelt beside him .  
His breath rattled harshly in his throat , and he looked at her without recognition .  
Dany brushed the flies off his chest , smashing one as he would have .  
She heard Haggo shout as they galloped up .  
`` Haggo , tell them Khal Drogo commanded the halt .  
Qotho- '' `` You do not command me , Khaleesi , '' Qotho said .  
Furious , Qotho wheeled his stallion around and galloped off in anger ... but Dany knew he would return with Mirri Maz Duur , however little he might like it .  
Even so , it was stifling under the sandsilk as Irri and Doreah helped Dany walk Drogo inside .  
Eroeh , the timid girl Dany had rescued outside the mud walls of the Lamb Men , set up a brazier .  
It was all he said , all he seemed capable of saying .  
Doreah unhooked his medallion belt and stripped off his vest and leggings , while Jhiqui knelt by his feet to undo the laces of his riding sandals .  
Irri wanted to leave the tent flaps open to let in the breeze , but Dany forbade it .  
When her khas came up , she posted them outside at guard .  
Eroeh stared fearfully at Drogo where he lay .  
Dany slapped her .  
He still wears the bells his father gave him . ''  
`` Khaleesi , `` Jhiqui said , `` he fell from his horse . ''  
It was so , she had seen it , and the bloodriders , and no doubt her handmaids and the men of her khas as well .  
They could not keep it secret , and Dany knew what that meant .  
Doreah , Eroeh , find water , cool water , he 's so hot . ''  
When Doreah brought the first jar of water , Dany wet a length of silk to lay across Drogo 's brow , over the burning skin .  
His eyes looked at her , but he did not see .  
While the bath was being prepared , Dany knelt awkwardly beside her lord husband , her belly great with their child within .  
She undid his braid with anxious fingers , as she had on the night he 'd taken her for the first time , beneath the stars .  
His bells she laid aside carefully , one by one .  
He would want them again when he was well , she told herself .  
A breath of air entered the tent as Aggo poked his head through the silk .  
`` Khaleesi , `` he said , '' the Andal is come , and begs leave to enter . ''  
`` The Andal '' was what the Dothraki called Ser Jorah .  
`` It is said Khal Drogo fell from his horse . ''  
`` For the love you say you bear me , help him now . ''  
He looked at Drogo long and hard , and then at Dany .  
Wordlessly , her throat tight with fear , Dany made a gesture .  
When they were alone , Ser Jorah drew his dagger .  
Deftly , with a delicacy surprising in such a big man , he began to scrape away the black leaves and dried blue mud from Drogo 's chest .  
The plaster had caked hard as the mud walls of the Lamb Men , and like those walls it cracked easily .  
Dany took his large callused hand in her own small ones , and held it tight between them .  
`` I will not let him die ... '' Ser Jorah gave a bitter laugh .  
We must go , and quickly , before he dies . ''  
Do you trust your khas ?  
`` Khal Drogo commanded them to keep me safe , '' Dany replied uncertainly , `` but if he dies ... '' She touched the swell of her belly .  
I carry Drogo 's heir .  
He will be khal after Drogo ... '' Ser Jorah frowned .  
They will give him to the dogs ... '' Dany hugged herself .  
`` He is Drogo 's son , and the crones say he will be the stallion who mounts the world .  
Better to kill the child than to risk his fury when he grows to manhood . ''  
The child kicked inside her , as if he had heard .  
Dany remembered the story Viserys had told her , of what the Usurper 's dogs had done to Rhaegar 's children .  
His son had been a babe as well , yet they had ripped him from his mother 's breast and dashed his head against a wall .  
`` I will order my khas to keep him safe , and Drogo 's bloodriders will- '' Ser Jorah held her by the shoulders .  
They will take you to Vaes Dothrak , to the crones , that is the last duty they owe him in life ... when it is done , they will join Drogo in the night lands . ''  
Dany did not want to go back to Vaes Dothrak and live the rest of her life among those terrible old women , yet she knew that the knight spoke the truth .  
Drogo had been more than her sun-and- stars ; he had been the shield that kept her safe .  
She took his hand again .  
A stirring at the tent flap made Dany turn her head .  
Behind her came Ootho and Haggo , carrying the godswife 's chest between them .  
When the bloodriders caught sight of Drogo 's wound , the chest slipped from Haggo 's fingers and crashed to the floor of the tent , and Qotho swore an oath so foul it seared the air .  
Mirri Maz Duur studied Drogo , her face still and dead .  
Haggo laid his fist across Mirri 's cheek with a meaty smack that drove her to the ground .  
Then he kicked her where she lay .  
Qotho pulled Haggo away , saying , `` Kicks are too merciful for a maegi .  
The flies off the river shall lay their eggs in her womb and drink pus from the ruins of her breasts ... '' He dug iron-hard fingers into the soft , wobbly flesh under the godswife 's arm and hauled her to her feet .  
`` I will not have her harmed . ''  
You say me no ?  
Ser Jorah stepped between them , loosening his longsword in its scabbard .  
For now ... Khaleesi. `` Haggo followed him from the tent , scowling .  
`` The Dothraki say a man and his bloodriders share one life , and Qotho sees it ending .  
She was more frightened than she dared admit , even to herself .  
`` So you have saved me once more . ''  
She went to Drogo burning on his mat , and gazed long at his wound .  
`` Ask or tell , it makes no matter .  
`` I made him a poultice of firepod and sting-me-not and bound it in a lambskin . ''  
`` It burned , he said .  
He tore it off .  
`` This time I will make certain he wears it . ''  
`` All I can do now is ease the dark road before him , so he might ride painless to the night lands .  
What had she ever done to make the gods so cruel ?  
`` Save him , and I will free you , I swear it .  
You must know a way ... some magic , some ... '' Mirri Maz Duur sat back on her heels and studied Daenerys through eyes as black as night .  
Dany wrapped her arms around herself protectively , rocked back and forth on her heels .  
She told herself she would die for him , if she must .  
Her brother Rhaegar had died for the woman he loved .  
Khal Drogo writhed feebly as Rakharo and Quaro lowered him into the bath .  
When the animal caught the scent of death , he screamed and reared , rolling his eyes .  
He fell to his knees before her .  
`` Khaleesi , `` he pleaded , `` you must not do this thing .  
`` Kill her and you kill your khal , '' Dany said .  
`` I am khaleesi , and I say it is not forbidden .  
In Vaes Dothrak , Khal Drogo slew a stallion and I ate his heart , to give our son strength and courage .  
The stallion kicked and reared as Rakharo , Quaro , and Aggo pulled him close to the tub where the khal floated like one already dead , pus and blood seeping from his wound to stain the bathwaters .  
Mirri Maz Duur chanted words in a tongue that Dany did not know , and a knife appeared in her hand .  
Dany never saw where it came from .  
The maegi drew it across the stallion 's throat , under the noble head , and the horse screamed and shuddered as the blood poured out of him in a red rush .  
Jhogo looked terrified as he struggled with the stallion 's weight , afraid to touch the dead flesh , yet afraid to let go as well .  
It was what they did , she knew .  
When a man died , his mount was killed and placed beneath him on the funeral pyre , to carry him to the night lands .  
It gave the smoke a spicy scent , a pleasant enough smell , yet Eroeh fled sobbing , and Dany was filled with fear .  
She sent her handmaids away .  
She bent over the tub , over Drogo in his bath of blood , and kissed him lightly on the brow .  
He pushed his way through the Dothraki to Dany 's side .  
When he saw the scarlet footprints her boots had left on the ground , the color seemed to drain from his face .  
There was no need ... '' `` Am I truly your princess ? ''  
`` You know you are , gods save us both . ''  
Haggo and Cohollo were with him .  
`` Maegi , `` Haggo growled .  
He drew his arakh and made for the tent .  
She caught him by the shoulder , but Qotho shoved her aside .  
Dany fell to her knees , crossing her arms over her belly to protect the child within .  
Rakharo and Quaro stood beside the tent flap .  
Quaro took a step forward , reaching for the handle of his whip , but Qotho spun graceful as a dancer , the curved arakh rising .  
The longsword caught it a foot from Ser Jorah 's face , and held it quivering for an instant as Qotho howled in fury .  
The knight was clad in chainmail , with gauntlets and greaves of lobstered steel and a heavy gorget around his throat , but he had not thought to don his helm .  
Qotho danced backward , arakh whirling around his head in a shining blur , flickering out like lightning as the knight came on in a rush .  
Ser Jorah parried as best he could , but the slashes came so fast that it seemed to Dany that Qotho had four arakhs and as many arms .  
Suddenly it was Mormont stumbling backward , and Qotho leaping to the attack .  
The left side of the knight 's face ran red with blood , and a cut to the hip opened a gash in his mail and left him limping .  
Qotho screamed taunts at him , calling him a craven , a milk man , a eunuch in an iron suit .  
Dany felt a sharp pain in her belly , a wetness on her thighs .  
Qotho shrieked triumph , but his arakh had found bone , and for half a heartbeat it caught .  
Ser Jorah brought his longsword down with all the strength left him , through flesh and muscle and bone , and Qotho 's forearm dangled loose , flopping on a thin cord of skin and sinew .  
The Dothraki were shouting , Mirri Maz Duur wailing inside the tent like nothing human , Quaro pleading for water as he died .  
Rakharo was fighting Haggo , arakh dancing with arakh until Jhogo 's whip cracked , loud as thunder , the lash coiling around Haggo 's throat .  
Rakharo sprang forward , howling , swinging his arakh down with both hands through the top of Haggo 's head .  
She tried to crawl toward the tent , but Cohollo caught her .  
Fingers in her hair , he pulled her head back and she felt the cold touch of his knife at her throat .  
When at last Daenerys found the strength to raise her head , she saw the crowd dispersing , the Dothraki stealing silently back to their tents and sleeping mats .  
She tried to rise , and agony seized her and squeezed her like a giant 's fist .  
An arm went under her waist , and then Ser Jorah was lifting her off her feet .  
She convulsed in his arms as the pain took her again , and heard the knight shouting for her handmaids to help him .  
Another pain grasped her , and Dany bit back a scream .  
It felt as if her son had a knife in each hand , as if he were hacking at her to cut his way out .  
No , Dany wanted to say , no , not that , you must n't , but when she opened her mouth , a long wail of pain escaped , and the sweat broke over her skin .  
She glimpsed the shadow of a great wolf , and another like a man wreathed in flames .  
`` She said so , I heard her . ''  
No , she shouted , or perhaps she only thought it , for no whisper of sound escaped her lips .  
Ser Jorah carried her inside the tent .  
It was a plump one , speckled brown , busily pecking at a crust that had fallen between two cobblestones , but when Arya 's shadow touched it , it took to the air .  
Her stick sword whistled out and caught it two feet off the ground , and it went down in a flurry of brown feathers .  
She was on it in the blink of an eye , grabbing a wing as the pigeon flapped and fluttered .  
She grabbed its neck and twisted until she felt the bone snap .  
she heard herself say .  
Plainly he did not like what he saw .  
Arya tapped her wooden sword against the side of her boot .  
The smells were making her mouth water , but she did not have three coppers ... or one .  
She gave the pushcart man a look , remembering what Syrio had told her about seeing .  
He was short , with a little round belly , and when he moved he seemed to favor his left leg a little .  
She was just thinking that if she snatched a tart and ran he would never be able to catch her when he said , `` You be keepin ' your filthy hands off .  
Arya glanced warily behind her .  
The gold cloaks had not been paying her any special attention , but the sight of them tied her stomach in knots .  
Arya had been staying as far from the castle as she could get , yet even from a distance she could see the heads rotting atop the high red walls .  
One story said the king had been killed by a boar while hunting , another that he 'd died eating a boar , stuffing himself so full that he 'd ruptured at the table .  
No , the king had died at table , others said , but only because Varys the Spider poisoned him .  
They only rang the bells like that for the death of a king , a tanner 's boy told Arya .  
All she wanted was to go home , but leaving King 's Landing was not so easy as she had hoped .  
She had been sleeping in Flea Bottom , on rooftops and in stables , wherever she could find a place to lie down , and it had n't taken her long to learn that the district was well named .  
Every day since her escape from the Red Keep , Arya had visited each of the seven city gates in turn .  
The Dragon Gate , the Lion Gate , and the Old Gate were closed and barred .  
The Mud Gate and the Gate of the Gods were open , but only to those who wanted to enter the city ; the guards let no one out .  
Those who were allowed to leave left by the King 's Gate or the Iron Gate , but Lannister men-at-arms in crimson cloaks and lion-crested helms manned the guard posts there .  
Spying down from the roof of an inn by the King 's Gate , Arya saw them searching wagons and carriages , forcing riders to open their saddlebags , and questioning everyone who tried to pass on foot .  
Her lord father had taught her never to steal , but it was growing harder to remember why .  
If she did not get out soon , she would have to take her chances with the gold cloaks .  
She had n't gone hungry much since she learned to knock down birds with her stick sword , but she feared so much pigeon was making her sick .  
A couple she 'd eaten raw , before she found Flea Bottom .  
The only thing was , the pot-shops were never empty , and even as she bolted down her food , Arya could feel them watching .  
Some of them stared at her boots or her cloak , and she knew what they were thinking .  
With others , she could almost feel their eyes crawling under her leathers ; she did n't know what they were thinking , and that scared her even more .  
The silver bracelet she 'd hoped to sell had been stolen her first night out of the castle , along with her bundle of good clothes , snatched while she slept in a burnt-out house off Pig Alley .  
All they left her was the cloak she had been huddled in , the leathers on her back , her wooden practice sword ... and Needle .  
She 'd been lying on top of Needle , or else it would have been gone too ; it was worth more than all the rest together .  
Since then Arya had taken to walking around with her cloak draped over her right arm , to conceal the blade at her hip .  
The wooden sword she carried in her left hand , out where everybody could see it , to scare off robbers , but there were men in the pot-shops who would n't have been scared off if she 'd had a battle-axe .  
The potshops would give you a fistful of coppers for a litter of pups , she 'd heard , but she did n't like to think about that .  
Arya scrambled through the crowds , trying to put distance between her and the gold cloaks .  
Sometimes she had to dodge wagons and horses , but at least you could see them coming .  
In some alleys you could n't help but brush against the walls ; the buildings leaned in so close they almost met .  
Arya stared at them with resentment , remembering the times she 'd played at hoops with Bran and Jon and their baby brother Rickon .  
She wondered how big Rickon had grown , and whether Bran was sad .  
She would have given anything if Jon had been here to call her `` little sister '' and muss her hair .  
She 'd seen her reflection in puddles , and she did n't think hair got any more mussed than hers .  
She had tried talking to the children she saw in the street , hoping to make a friend who would give her a place to sleep , but she must have talked wrong or something .  
Only yesterday , a scrawny barefoot girl twice her age had knocked her down and tried to pull the boots off her feet , but Arya gave her a crack on her ear with her stick sword that sent her off sobbing and bleeding .  
A gull wheeled overhead as she made her way down the hill toward Flea Bottom .  
Arya glanced at it thoughtfully , but it was well beyond the reach of her stick .  
It was on the way to the Mud Gate anyway , and she had n't checked that one today .  
The wharfs were oddly quiet when Arya got there .  
She spied another pair of gold cloaks , walking side by side through the fish market , but they never so much as looked at her .  
Half the stalls were empty , and it seemed to her that there were fewer ships at dock than she remembered .  
Arya watched them for a bit , then began to make her way along the river .  
Arya could not read the name painted on the hull ; the words were strange , Myrish , Braavosi , perhaps even High Valyrian .  
`` She 's the Wind Witch , out of Myr , '' the man said .  
The Wind Witch was the ship Father had hired to take her home ... still waiting !  
She 'd imagined it had sailed ages ago .  
Ashamed to let them see her crying like a baby , she stopped to rub at her eyes .  
Her eyes her eyes her eyes , why did ... Look with your eyes , she heard Syrio whisper .  
It was all Arya could do not to bolt and run , but she knew that if she did , they would be after her at once .  
She made herself walk closer .  
They were looking for a girl , but he thought she was a boy .  
Arya did as he told her .  
She could not have said how she got back to Flea Bottom , but she was breathing hard by the time she reached the narrow crooked unpaved streets between the hills .  
Arya wound her way through the maze dully .  
It was not until she caught a whiff of bubbling brown coming through a pot-shop door that she realized her pigeon was gone .  
It must have slipped from her belt as she ran , or someone had stolen it and she 'd never noticed .  
They 'll be taking his head off , Buu says . ''  
The boy leapt over , but Arya never saw it .  
She tripped and fell , face first , scraping her knee open on a stone and smashing her fingers when her hands hit the hard-packed earth .  
She sobbed as she struggled to her knees .  
When she sucked on it , she saw that half the thumbnail was gone , ripped off in her fall .  
It was all Arya could do to get out of the road before they ran her down , four guardsmen on huge horses , pounding past at a gallop .  
Arya had seen them in the bailey a hundred times ; the Redwyne twins , Ser Horas and Ser Hobber , homely youths with orange hair and square , freckled faces .  
Sansa and Jeyne Poole used to call them Ser Horror and Ser Slobber , and giggle whenever they caught sight of them .  
She bit her lip as she limped along , listening to the excited voices around her .  
They 're carrying him up to Baelor 's Sept. '' `` I heard he was dead . ''  
Here , I got me a silver stag says they lop his head off . ''  
`` He never- '' she started , but she was only a child and they talked right over her .  
`` Well , they do n't mean to anoint him no knight .  
I heard it was Stark killed old King Robert .  
Slit his throat in the woods , and when they found him , he stood there cool as you please and said it was some old boar did for His Grace . ''  
`` You shut your lying mouth , woman .  
You do n't know what you 're saying , his lordship 's a fine true man . ''  
By the time they reached the Street of the Sisters , they were packed in shoulder to shoulder .  
Arya let the human current carry her along , up to the top of Visenya 's Hill .  
Arya squirmed through the press , ducking between the legs of horses and clutching tight to her sword stick .  
Sliding her stick sword through her belt , Arya began to climb .  
Her broken thumbnail left smears of blood on the painted marble , but she made it up , and wedged herself in between the king 's feet .  
That was when she saw her father .  
The High Septon himself stood behind him , a squat man , grey with age and ponderously fat , wearing long white robes and an immense crown of spun gold and crystal that wreathed his head with rainbows whenever he moved .  
Arya recognized the Hound , wearing a snowy white cloak over his dark grey armor , with four of the Kingsguard around him .  
She saw Varys the eunuch gliding among the lords in soft slippers and a patterned damask robe , and she thought the short man with the silvery cape and pointed beard might be the one who had once fought a duel for Mother .  
Arya scowled , wondering what her sister was doing here , why she looked so happy .  
The man in the black-and-gold armor stepped up behind Father and prodded him sharply .  
You leave him alone !  
Arya wanted to shout , but she knew no one would listen .  
She chewed her lip .  
`` I am Eddard Stark , Lord of Winterfell and Hand of the King , '' he said more loudly , his voice carrying across the plaza , `` and I come before you to confess my treason in the sight of gods and men . ''  
Sansa had hidden her face in her hands .  
`` I betrayed the faith of my king and the trust of my friend , Robert , '' he shouted .  
`` I swore to defend and protect his children , yet before his blood was cold , I plotted to depose and murder his son and seize the throne for myself .  
Let the High Septon and Baelor the Beloved and the Seven bear witness to the truth of what I say : Joffrey Baratheon is the one true heir to the Iron Throne , and by the grace of all the gods , Lord of the Seven Kingdoms and Protector of the Realm . ''  
Arya cried out as she saw her father hit .  
Two of the Kingsguard stepped in front of Joffrey and the queen , protecting them with their shields .  
She tightened her fingers around the grip , squeezing as hard as she had ever squeezed anything .  
Please , gods , keep him safe , she prayed .  
Do n't let them hurt my father .  
`` As we sin , so do we suffer , '' he intoned , in a deep swelling voice much louder than Father 's .  
Rainbows danced around his head as he lifted his hands in entreaty .  
`` The gods are just , yet Blessed Baelor taught us that they are also merciful .  
`` My mother bids me let Lord Eddard take the black , and Lady Sansa has begged mercy for her father . ''  
He looked straight at Sansa then , and smiled , and for a moment Arya thought that the gods had heard her prayer , until Joffrey turned back to the crowd and said , `` But they have the soft hearts of women .  
The crowd roared , and Arya felt the statue of Baelor rock as they surged against it .  
The High Septon clutched at the king 's cape , and Varys came rushing over waving his arms , and even the queen was saying something to him , but Joffrey shook his head .  
Dimly , as if from far off , Arya heard her sister scream .  
Arya wriggled between Baelor 's feet and threw herself into the crowd , drawing Needle .  
Immediately someone slammed into her back and she almost went down herself .  
Arya slashed at them with Needle .  
an angry voice shouted at Arya , but she bowled past , shoving people aside , squirming between them , slamming into anyone in her way .  
A hand fumbled at her leg and she hacked at it , kicked at shins .  
A woman stumbled and Arya ran up her back , cutting to both sides , but it was no good , no good , there were too many people , no sooner did she make a hole than it closed again .  
She could still hear Sansa screaming .  
Ice , she thought , he has Ice !  
And then a hand shot out of the press and closed round her arm like a wolf trap , so hard that Needle went flying from her hand .  
She would have fallen if he had n't held her up , as easy as if she were a doll .  
I ... Arya sobbed .  
Dimly , as if from far away , she heard a ... a noise ... a soft sighing sound , as if a million people had let out their breath at once .  
`` Know me now , do you ?  
When she started to reply , he shook her again , even harder .  
`` Shut , I said . ''  
Numb , she trailed along beside ... Yoren , yes , his name is Yoren .  
She did not recall him finding Needle , until he handed the sword back to her .  
`` I 'm not- '' she started .  
He shoved her into a doorway , thrust dirty fingers through her hair , and gave it a twist , yanking her head back .  
As the blade flashed toward her face , Arya threw herself backward , kicking wildly , wrenching her head from side to side , but he had her by the hair , so strong , she could feel her scalp tearing , and on her lips the salt taste of tears .  
Bran watched them from the balcony of Maester Luwin 's turret , listening to them grunt and strain and curse as they swung their staves and wooden swords .  
He scratched Summer idly behind the ears as the direwolf tore at a haunch of meat .  
`` Yet given time ... Ser Rodrik has the truth of it , we need men to walk the walls .  
`` If I still had my legs , I could beat them all . ''  
He remembered the last time he 'd held a sword in his hand , when the king had come to Winterfell .  
If I had a poleaxe with a big long haft , Hodor could be my legs .  
He pecks you and you peck him harder .  
`` Old Nan told me about him .  
He had a long staff with blades at both ends and he could spin it in his hands and chop two men at once . ''  
`` When he lost his eyes , he put star sapphires in the empty sockets , or so the singers claim .  
`` You must put these dreams aside , they will only break your heart . ''  
He flew into my bedchamber and told me to come with him , so I did .  
Father was there , and we talked .  
`` It was something to do about Jon , I think . ''  
He lifted his eye from the tube , blinking .  
When I woke , I told him to take me down , to see if Father was truly there .  
At first he did n't know what I was saying , but I got him to the steps by telling him to go here and go there , only then he would n't go down .  
It made me so mad I almost gave him a swat in the head , like Old Nan is always doing . ''  
He saw the way the maester was frowning and hurriedly added , `` I did n't , though . ''  
`` In the dream I flew down with the crow , but I ca n't do that when I 'm awake , '' Bran explained .  
The maester tugged at the chain around his neck , as he often did when he was uncomfortable .  
`` I believe I can solve that difficulty . ''  
`` I lived my life beyond the Wall , a hole in the ground wo n't fret me none , m'lords , '' she said .  
The direwolf left his bone and followed as Osha carried Bran across the yard and down the spiral steps to the cold vault under the earth .  
Bran did not even mind-too badly-that she carried him in her arms and not on her back .  
Ser Rodrik had ordered Osha 's chain struck off , since she had served faithfully and well since she had been at Winterfell .  
She still wore the heavy iron shackles around her ankles-a sign that she was not yet wholly trusted-but they did not hinder her sure strides down the steps .  
Bran could not recall the last time he had been in the crypts .  
When he was little , he used to play down here with Robb and Jon and his sisters .  
He wished they were here now ; the vault might not have seemed so dark and scary .  
He strode briskly down the vault , past the procession of stone pillars and the endless carved figures .  
The vault was cavernous , longer than Winterfell itself , and Jon had told him once that there were other levels underneath , vaults even deeper and darker where the older kings were buried .  
Summer refused to move from the steps , even when Osha followed the torch , Bran in her arms .  
`` Do you recall your history , Bran ? ''  
the maester said as they walked .  
`` Tell Osha who they were and what they did , if you can . ''  
He looked at the passing faces and the tales came back to him .  
The maester had told him the stories , and Old Nan had made them come alive .  
When the sea raiders landed in the east , he drove them out and built the castle at White Harbor .  
His son was Rickard Stark , not my father 's father but another Rickard , he took the Neck away from the Marsh King and married his daughter .  
That 's a Brandon , the tall one with the dreamy face , he was Brandon the Shipwright , because he loved the sea .  
His son was Brandon the Burner , because he put the torch to all his father 's ships in grief .  
There 's Rodrik Stark , who won Bear Island in a wrestling match and gave it to the Mormonts .  
He was the last King in the North and the first Lord of Winterfell , after he yielded to Aegon the Conqueror .  
Oh , there , he 's Cregan Stark .  
He fought with Prince Aemon once , and the Dragonknight said he 'd never faced a finer swordsman . ''  
They were almost at the end now , and Bran felt a sadness creeping over him .  
They 're not supposed to have statues , that 's only for the lords and the kings , but my father loved them so much he had them done . ''  
`` Robert was betrothed to marry her , but Prince Rhaegar carried her off and raped her , '' Bran explained .  
`` Robert fought a war to win her back .  
He killed Rhaegar on the Trident with his hammer , but Lyanna died and he never got her back at all . ''  
`` Is this where you saw your father in your dream , Bran ? ''  
The memory made him shiver .  
He looked around the vault uneasily , the hairs on the back of his neck bristling .  
`` As you see , he 's not here .  
He thrust his arm into the blackness inside the tomb , as into the mouth of some great beast .  
The torch went flying from his fingers , caromed off the stone face of Brandon Stark , and tumbled to the statue 's feet , the flames licking up his legs .  
In the drunken shifting torchlight , they saw Luwin struggling with the direwolf , beating at his muzzle with one hand while the jaws closed on the other .  
He slammed into Shaggydog and knocked him back , and the two direwolves rolled over and over in a tangle of grey and black fur , snapping and biting at each other , while Maester Luwin struggled to his knees , his arm torn and bloody .  
Osha propped Bran up against Lord Rickard 's stone wolf as she hurried to assist the maester .  
With one final snap at Summer 's face , Shaggydog broke off and bounded to Rickon 's side .  
`` You let my father be , '' Rickon warned Luwin .  
`` You let him be . ''  
You leave him be .  
He 's coming home now , like he promised .  
Bran had never seen Maester Luwin took so uncertain before .  
Blood dripped down his arm where Shaggydog had shredded the wool of his sleeve and the flesh beneath .  
Rickon patted Shaggydog 's muzzle , damp with blood .  
`` I let him loose .  
I like it here . ''  
I 'm the third man he 's savaged .  
Give him the freedom of the castle and it 's only a question of time before he kills someone .  
The truth is hard , but the wolf has to be chained , or ... '' He hesitated .  
... or killed , Bran thought , but what he said was , `` He was not made for chains .  
`` The boy 's the lordling here , as I recall . ''  
She handed Luwin back his torch and scooped Bran up into her arms again .  
`` Will you come , Rickon ? ''  
Maester Luwin 's turret was so cluttered that it seemed to Bran a wonder that he ever found anything .  
`` I agree that it is odd that both you boys dreamed the same dream , yet when you stop to consider it , it 's only natural .  
You miss your lord father , and you know that he is a captive .  
Too young , as I say , but you , Bran , you 're old enough to know that dreams are only dreams . ''  
Tears were streaming down the maester 's face , yet he shook his head doggedly .  
`` Old Nan says the children knew the songs of the trees , that they could fly like birds and swim like fish and talk to the animals , '' Bran said .  
`` She says that they made music so beautiful that it made you cry like a little baby just to hear it . ''  
`` I wish they were here now .  
A spell would heal my arm less painfully , and they could talk to Shaggydog and tell him not to bite . ''  
Here , let me show you something . ''  
In place of mail , they wore long shirts of woven leaves and bound their legs in bark , so they seemed to melt into the wood .  
Luwin made him count them out .  
Maester Luwin tugged at his chain collar where it chafed against his neck .  
Slight as they were , the children were quick and graceful .  
How long the children reigned here or where they came from , no man can know .  
`` But some twelve thousand years ago , the First Men appeared from the east , crossing the Broken Arm of Dorne before it was broken .  
As the First Men carved out holdfasts and farms , they cut down the faces and gave them to the fire .  
Finally the wise of both races prevailed , and the chiefs and heroes of the First Men met the greenseers and wood dancers amidst the weirwood groves of a small island in the great lake called Gods Eye .  
The First Men were given the coastlands , the high plains and bright meadows , the mountains and bogs , but the deep woods were to remain forever the children 's , and no more weirwoods were to be put to the axe anywhere in the realm .  
In time , the First Men even put aside the gods they had brought with them , and took up the worship of the secret gods of the wood .  
The signing of the Pact ended the Dawn Age , and began the Age of Heroes . ''  
The Starks have treated you more gently than you deserve .  
`` Tell me where they went , '' Bran said .  
`` So long as the kingdoms of the First Men held sway , the Pact endured , all through the Age of Heroes and the Long Night and the birth of the Seven Kingdoms , yet finally there came a time , many centuries later , when other peoples crossed the narrow sea .  
Only here , where the King in the North threw back every army that tried to cross the Neck , did the rule of the First Men endure .  
The Andals burnt out the weirwood groves , hacked down the faces , slaughtered the children where they found them , and everywhere proclaimed the triumph of the Seven over the old gods .  
So the children fled north- '' Summer began to howl .  
When Shaggydog bounded to his feet and added his voice to his brother 's , dread clutched at Bran 's heart .  
`` It 's coming , `` he whispered , with the certainty of despair .  
He had known it since last night , he realized , since the crow had led him down into the crypts to say farewell .  
He had known it , but he had not believed .  
He had wanted Maester Luwin to be right .  
The crow , he thought , the three-eyed crow ... The howling stopped as suddenly as it had begun .  
Summer padded across the tower floor to Shaggydog , and began to lick at a mat of bloody fur on the back of his brother 's neck .  
Bran pulled him close and hugged him .  
Maester Luwin stared at the black bird as if it were a scorpion with feathers .  
When he whistled , the raven hopped onto his bandaged forearm .  
Poor thing , a wonder it got through . ''  
Bran found himself shivering as the maester unrolled the paper .  
he said , holding his brother all the harder .  
She put her hand on his head .  
Maester Luwin looked up at them numbly , a small grey man with blood on the sleeve of his grey wool robe and tears in his bright grey eyes .  
In the tower room at the heart of Maegor 's Holdfast , Sansa gave herself to the darkness .  
When she could not sleep she lay under her blankets shivering with grief .  
The dishes piled up on the table beneath her window , untouched and spoiling , until the servants took them away again .  
Sometimes her sleep was leaden and dreamless , and she woke from it more tired than when she had closed her eyes .  
Yet those were the best times , for when she dreamed , she dreamed of Father .  
Waking or sleeping , she saw him , saw the gold cloaks fling him down , saw Ser Ilyn striding forward , unsheathing Ice from the scabbard on his back , saw the moment ... the moment when ... she had wanted to look away , she had wanted to , her legs had gone out from under her and she had fallen to her knees , yet somehow she could not turn her head , and all the people were screaming and shouting , and her prince had smiled at her , he 'd smiled and she 'd felt safe , but only for a heartbeat , until he said those words , and her father 's legs ... that was what she remembered , his legs , the way they 'd jerked when Ser Ilyn ... when the sword ... Perhaps I will die too , she told herself , and the thought did not seem so terrible to her .  
If she flung herself from the window , she could put an end to her suffering , and in the years to come the singers would write songs of her grief .  
Sansa went so far as to cross the bedchamber and throw open the shutters ... but then her courage left her , and she ran back to her bed , sobbing .  
The serving girls tried to talk to her when they brought her meals , but she never answered them .  
Once Grand Maester Pycelle came with a box of flasks and bottles , to ask if she was ill .  
He felt her brow , made her undress , and touched her all over while her bedmaid held her down .  
When he left he gave her a potion of honeywater and herbs and told her to drink a swallow every night .  
She dreamt of footsteps on the tower stair , an ominous scraping of leather on stone as a man climbed slowly toward her bedchamber , step by step .  
All she could do was huddle behind her door and listen , trembling , as he came closer and closer .  
It was Ser Ilyn Payne , she knew , coming for her with Ice in his hand , coming to take her head .  
Finally the footsteps stopped and she knew he was just outside , standing there silent with his dead eyes and his long pocked face .  
That was when she realized she was naked .  
She crouched down , trying to cover herself with her hands , as her door began to swing open , creaking , the point of the greatsword poking through ... She woke murmuring , `` Please , please , I 'll be good , I 'll be good , please do n't , '' but there was no one to hear .  
When they finally came for her in truth , Sansa never heard their footsteps .  
It was Joffrey who opened her door , not Ser Ilyn but the boy who had been her prince .  
Then her bed hangings were yanked back , and she threw up a hand against the sudden light and saw them standing over her .  
`` See that you bathe and dress as befits my betrothed . ''  
Sansa drew her blanket up to her chin to cover herself .  
`` If you wo n't rise and dress yourself , my Hound will do it for you , '' Joffrey said .  
Sandor Clegane scooped her up around the waist and lifted her off the featherbed as she struggled feebly .  
He pushed her toward her wardrobe , almost gently .  
`` I did as the queen asked , I wrote the letters , I wrote what she told me .  
Please , let me go home .  
I wo n't do any treason , I 'll be good , I swear it , I do n't have traitor 's blood , I do n't .  
Remembering her courtesies , she lowered her head .  
`` Mother says I 'm still to marry you , so you 'll stay here , and you 'll obey . ''  
I never promised to spare him , only that I 'd be merciful , and I was .  
If he had n't been your father , I would have had him torn or flayed , but I gave him a clean death . ''  
Sansa stared at him , seeing him for the first time .  
She wondered how she could ever have thought him handsome .  
The knight was on her before she could think , yanking back her hand as she tried to shield her face and backhanding her across the ear with a gloved fist .  
Sansa did not remember failing , yet the next she knew she was sprawled on one knee amongst the rushes .  
`` Will you obey now , or shall I have him chastise you again ? ''  
`` Your Grace , `` Joffrey corrected her .  
Ser Meryn and Ser Arys followed him out , but Sandor Clegane lingered long enough to yank her roughly to her feet .  
`` Save yourself some pain , girl , and give him what he wants . ''  
`` He wants you to smile and smell sweet and be his lady love , '' the Hound rasped .  
`` He wants to hear you recite all your pretty little words the way the septa taught you .  
He wants you to love him ... and fear him . ''  
After he was gone , Sansa sank back onto the rushes , staring at the wall until two of her bedmaids crept timidly into the chamber .  
The right side of her face was swollen and beginning to ache , but she knew Joffrey would want her to be beautiful .  
The hot water made her think of Winterfell , and she took strength from that .  
She had not washed since the day her father died , and she was startled at how filthy the water became .  
Her maids sluiced the blood off her face , scrubbed the dirt from her back , washed her hair and brushed it out until it sprang back in thick auburn curls .  
Sansa did not speak to them , except to give them commands ; they were Lannister servants , not her own , and she did not trust them .  
When the time came to dress , she chose the green silk gown that she had worn to the tourney .  
She recalled how gallant Joff had been to her that night at the feast .  
Perhaps it would make him remember as well , and treat her more gently .  
She drank a glass of buttermilk and nibbled at some sweet biscuits as she waited , to settle her stomach .  
`` His Grace has instructed me to escort you to the throne room . ''  
`` Did he instruct you to hit me if I refused to come ? ''  
The look he gave her was without expression .  
He did not so much as glance at the bruise he had left her .  
He did not hate her , Sansa realized ; neither did he love her .  
She wanted to rage , to hurt him as he 'd hurt her , to warn him that when she was queen she would have him exiled if he ever dared strike her again ... but she remembered what the Hound had told her , so all she said was , `` I shall do whatever His Grace commands . ''  
She stood with her head bowed , fighting to hold back her tears , while below Joffrey sat on his Iron Throne and dispensed what it pleased him to call justice .  
Nine cases out of ten seemed to bore him ; those he allowed his council to handle , squirming restlessly while Lord Baelish , Grand Maester Pycelle , or Queen Cersei resolved the matter .  
When he did choose to make a ruling , though , not even his queen mother could sway him .  
A thief was brought before him and he had Ser Ilyn chop his hand off , right there in court .  
Two knights came to him with a dispute about some land , and he decreed that they should duel for it on the morrow .  
A woman fell to her knees to plead for the head of a man executed as a traitor .  
She had loved him , she said , and she wanted to see him decently buried .  
`` If you loved a traitor , you must be a traitor too , '' Joffrey said .  
Sansa stared hard at his ugly face , remembering how he had thrown down her father for Ser Ilyn to behead , wishing she could hurt him , wishing that some hero would throw him down and cut off his head .  
But a voice inside her whispered , There are no heroes , and she remembered what Lord Petyr had said to her , here in this very hall .  
In life , the monsters win , she told herself , and now it was the Hound 's voice she heard , a cold rasp , metal on stone .  
`` Save yourself some pain , girl , and give him what he wants . ''  
Joff commanded them to fetch his woodharp and ordered him to perform the song for the court .  
The pig was the boar who 'd killed him , Sansa knew , but in some verses it almost sounded as if he were singing about the queen .  
When the herald 's voice dismissed the court , she fled the balcony , only to find Joffrey waiting for her at the base of the curving stairs .  
`` You look much better than you did . ''  
She had no choice but to take it .  
The touch of his hand would have thrilled her once ; now it made her flesh crawl .  
`` I ... I had not thought , my lord . ''  
After all that had happened , his words should have lost their power to hurt her , yet somehow they had not .  
She worries about our children , whether they 'll be stupid like you , but I told her not to trouble herself . ''  
The Hound was right , she thought , I am only a little bird , repeating the words they taught me .  
`` I 'll get you with child as soon as you 're able , '' Joffrey said as he escorted her across the practice yard .  
Sansa could not look at him , he shamed her so .  
He led her into the gatehouse , to the base of the steps that led up to the battlements .  
Suddenly she knew where they were going .  
`` Please , no , do n't make me , I beg you ... '' Joffrey pressed his lips together .  
Sansa shook her head wildly .  
You had better do what I say . ''  
Joffrey reached for her , and Sansa cringed away from him , backing into the Hound .  
He 'll have you up there no matter what , so give him what he wants .  
She forced herself to take King Joffrey 's hand .  
Yet she knew that beyond them was open country , farms and fields and forests , and beyond that , north and north and north again , stood Winterfell .  
The heads were mounted between the crenels , along the top of the wall , impaled on iron spikes so they faced out over the city .  
Sansa had noted them the moment she 'd stepped out onto the wallwalk , but the river and the bustling streets and the setting sun were ever so much prettier .  
He can make me look at the heads , she told herself , but he ca n't make me see them .  
Sandor Clegane took the head by the hair and turned it .  
Sansa looked at it calmly , not seeing it at all .  
It did not really look like Lord Eddard , she thought ; it did not even look real `` How long do I have to look ? ''  
Joffrey marched her down the wallwalk , past a dozen more heads and two empty spikes .  
`` I 'm saving those for my uncle Stannis and my uncle Renly , '' he explained .  
Sansa had wondered what had happened to Septa Mordane , although she supposed she had known all along .  
`` Why did you kill her ? ''  
Joffrey looked pouty ; somehow she was upsetting him .  
`` You have n't said what you mean to give me for my name day .  
When he smiled , she knew he was mocking her .  
He turned Septa Mordane 's head back around .  
`` I remember your brother from Winterfell .  
She wept when she heard .  
Women are all weak , even her , though she pretends she is n't .  
She says we need to stay in King 's Landing in case my other uncles attack , but I do n't care .  
After my name day feast , I 'm going to raise a host and kill your brother myself .  
A kind of madness took over her then , and she heard herself say , `` Maybe my brother will give me your head . ''  
This time the knight grasped her beneath the jaw and held her head still as he struck her .  
He hit her twice , left to right , and harder , right to left .  
`` You 're more pretty when you smile and laugh . ''  
Sansa made herself smile , afraid that he would have Ser Meryn hit her again if she did not , but it was no good , the king still shook his head .  
All it would take was a shove , she told herself .  
You could do it , she told herself .  
Sandor Clegane knelt before her , between her and Joffrey .  
With a delicacy surprising in such a big man , he dabbed at the blood welling from her broken lip .  
Sansa lowered her eyes .  
Drogo held her in strong arms , and his hand stroked her sex and opened her and woke that sweet wetness that was his alone , and the stars smiled down on them , stars in a daylight sky .  
he shrieked , and his fingers snapped like snakes , biting at her nipples , pinching , twisting , even as his eyes burst and ran like jelly down seared and blackened cheeks .  
If it caught her she would die a death that was more than death , howling forever alone in the darkness .  
And he smiled for her and began to lift his hand toward hers , but when he opened his mouth the fire poured out .  
She saw his heart burning through his chest , and in an instant he was gone , consumed like a moth by a candle , turned to ash .  
She wept for her child , the promise of a sweet mouth on her breast , but her tears turned to steam as they touched her skin .  
She raced , her feet melting the stone wherever they touched .  
the ghosts cried as one , and she screamed and threw herself forward .  
Flakes of ash drifted upward from a brazier , and Dany followed them with her eyes through the smoke hole above .  
`` Bring me ... '' Her voice was raw as a wound , and she could not think what she wanted .  
She rolled onto her side and got an elbow under her , fighting the blanket tangled about her legs .  
I have to ... They found her on the carpet , crawling toward her dragon eggs .  
Ser Jorah Mormont lifted her in his arms and carried her back to her sleeping silks , while she struggled feebly against him .  
Over his shoulder she saw her three handmaids , Jhogo with his little wisp of mustache , and the flat broad face of Mirri Maz Duur .  
He covered her with silk , though she was burning .  
Somehow she swallowed .  
It was warm and flat , yet Dany drank it eagerly , and sent Jhiqui for more .  
The cloth was soothing , but Irri seemed so sad , it frightened her .  
When Jhiqui returned with more water , Mirri Maz Duur came with her , eyes heavy from sleep .  
`` Bring me ... '' she murmured , her voice slurred and drowsy .  
`` Bring ... I want to hold ... '' `` Yes ? ''  
Dragondew , she thought .  
Her fingers trailed lightly across the surface of the shell , tracing the wisps of gold , and deep in the stone she felt something twist and stretch in response .  
Dany touched her brow .  
Jhiqui brought a sandsilk robe and draped it over her shoulders .  
`` And a warm bath , and Mirri Maz Duur , and ... '' Memory came back to her all at once , and she faltered .  
Jhiqui would have run as well , but Dany caught her by the wrist and held her captive .  
Dany released her wrist .  
My son is dead , she thought as Jhiqui left the tent .  
She had known since she woke the first time to Jhiqui 's tears .  
No , she had known before she woke .  
She should weep , she knew , yet her eyes were dry as ash .  
She had wept in her dream , and the tears had turned to steam on her cheeks .  
All the grief has been burned out of me , she told herself .  
She felt sad , and yet ... she could feel Rhaego receding from her , as if he had never been .  
Ser Jorah and Mirri Maz Duur entered a few moments later , and found Dany standing over the other dragon 's eggs , the two still in their chest .  
It seemed to her that they felt as hot as the one she had slept with , which was passing strange .  
She took his hand and placed it on the black egg with the scarlet swirls .  
He took his hand away .  
To please him , she reclined on a pile of cushions .  
The women say He faltered , and Dany saw how the flesh hung loose on him , and the way he limped when he moved .  
He turned his face away .  
`` They say the child was ... '' She waited , but Ser Jorah could not say it .  
When I touched him , the flesh sloughed off the bone , and inside he was full of graveworms and the stink of corruption .  
Darkness , Dany thought .  
`` My son was alive and strong when Ser Jorah carried me into this tent , '' she said .  
`` I could feel him kicking , fighting to be born . ''  
I saw you , alone , dancing with the shadows. `` `` The grave casts long shadows , Iron Lord , '' Mirri said .  
Ser Jorah had killed her son , Dany knew .  
He had done what he did for love and loyalty , yet he had carried her into a place no living man should go and fed her baby to the darkness .  
He knew it too ; the grey face , the hollow eyes , the limp .  
`` The shadows have touched you too , Ser Jorah , '' she told him .  
`` You warned me that only death could pay for life .  
I thought you meant the horse . ''  
If I look back I am lost .  
Show me what I bought with my son 's life . ''  
Ser Jorah slipped an arm around her and helped her stand .  
`` I would see him now , Ser Jorah . ''  
Her handmaids waited with fruit and wine and water , and Jhogo moved close to help Ser Jorah support her .  
Aggo and Rakharo stood behind .  
The glare of sun on sand made it hard to see more , until Dany raised her hand to shade her eyes .  
Ko Pono left first , naming himself Khal Pono , and many followed him .  
`` They took Khal Drogo 's herds , Khaleesi , '' Rakharo said .  
They took many slaves as well , the khal 's and yours , yet they left some few . ''  
asked Dany , remembering the frightened child she had saved outside the city of the Lamb Men .  
`` Mago seized her , who is Khal Jhaqo 's bloodrider now , '' said Jhogo .  
`` He mounted her high and low and gave her to his khal , and Jhaqo gave her to his other bloodriders .  
When they were done with her , they cut her throat . ''  
If I look back I am lost .  
I swear it by the Mother of Mountains and the Womb of the World .  
Before I am done with them , Mago and Ko Jhaqo will plead for the mercy they showed Eroeh . ''  
`` Khaleesi , `` the handmaid Irri explained , as if to a child , `` Jhaqo is a khal now , with twenty thousand riders at his back . ''  
She lifted her head .  
`` And I am Daenerys Stormhorn , Daenerys of House Targaryen , of the blood of Aegon the Conqueror and Maegor the Cruel and old Valyria before them .  
I am the dragon 's daughter , and I swear to you , these men will die screaming .  
A dozen bloodflies had settled on his body , though he did not seem to feel them .  
When she whispered his name , he did not seem to hear .  
He will go where you lead him , but no farther .  
He will eat if you put food in his mouth , drink if you dribble water on his lips . ''  
His life was an arakh in his hand and his bells ringing in his hair as he rode to meet an enemy .  
She ached , inside and out , but her fury gave her strength .  
`` You knew what I was buying , and you knew the price , and yet you let me pay it . ''  
If I look back I am lost .  
`` You cheated me .  
You murdered my child within me . ''  
His khalasar shall trample no nations into dust , `` `` I spoke for you , '' she said , anguished .  
How then did you save me ?  
I saw my god 's house burn , where I had healed good men beyond counting .  
My home they burned as well , and in the street I saw piles of heads .  
I saw the head of a baker who made my bread .  
I saw the head of a boy I had saved from deadeye fever , only three moons past .  
I heard children crying as the riders drove them off with their whips .  
Tell me again what you saved . ''  
Dany called out for the men of her khas and bid them take Mirri Maz Duur and bind her hand and foot , but the maegi smiled at her as they carried her off , as if they shared a secret .  
A word , and Dany could have her head off ... yet then what would she have ?  
They led Khal Drogo back to her tent , and Dany commanded them to fill a tub , and this time there was no blood in the water .  
She bathed him herself , washing the dirt and the dust from his arms and chest , cleaning his face with a soft cloth , soaping his long black hair and combing the knots and tangles from it till it shone again as she remembered .  
She stopped for drink and food , but it was all she could do to nibble at a fig and keep down a mouthful of water .  
Sleep would have been a release , but she had slept enough ... too long , in truth .  
The memory of their first ride was with her when she led him out into the darkness , for the Dothraki believed that all things of importance in a man 's life must be done beneath the open sky .  
She told herself that there were powers stronger than hatred , and spells older and truer than any the maegi had learned in Asshai .  
`` Remember our first ride together , the day we wed .  
Remember the night we made Rhaego , with the khalasar all around us and your eyes on my face .  
The birth had left her too raw and torn to take him inside of her , as she would have wanted , but Doreah had taught her other ways .  
She raked him with her nails and covered him with kisses and whispered and prayed and told him stories , and by the end she had bathed him with her tears .  
And when the bleak dawn broke over an empty horizon , Dany knew that he was truly lost to her .  
She clutched it to her breasts as she walked back out to Drogo , to her sun-and-stars .  
If I look back I am lost .  
It hurt even to walk , and she wanted to sleep , to sleep and not to dream .  
She knelt , kissed Drogo on the lips , and pressed the cushion down across his face .  
When he lifted his arm , pain shot through his elbow , reminding him of his own brief taste of battle .  
He loved his brother , but he would not have wanted to be with him in the Whispering Wood for all the gold in Casterly Rock .  
After the hardships of the long relentless drive south , the prospect of even a single night in an inn had cheered Tyrion mightily ... though he rather wished it had not been this inn again , with all its memories .  
His father had set a grueling pace , and it had taken its toll .  
He had been upstairs , enjoying the comfort of a featherbed and the warmth of Shae 's body beside him , when his squire had woken him to say that a rider had arrived with dire news of Riverrun .  
Robb Stark had reached Riverrun days and days ago .  
Even after the Whispering Wood , you had Riverrun ringed in iron , surrounded by a great host ... what madness made Ser Jaime decide to split his men into three separate camps ?  
Surely he knew how vulnerable that would leave them ? ''  
Better than you , you chinless craven , Tyrion thought .  
Jaime might have lost Riverrun , but it angered him to hear his brother slandered by the likes of Swyft , a shameless lickspittle whose greatest accomplishment was marrying his equally chinless daughter to Ser Kevan , and thereby attaching himself to the Lannisters .  
`` You have never seen Riverrun , Ser Harys , or you would know that Jaime had little choice in the matter .  
The rivers form two sides of a triangle , and when danger threatens , the Tullys open their sluice gates upstream to create a wide moat on the third side , turning Riverrun into an island .  
`` We 'd built palisades of sharpened stakes around the camps , yet it was not enough , not with no warning and the rivers cutting us off from each other .  
They came down on the north camp first .  
Marq Piper had been raiding our supply trains , but he had no more than fifty men .  
Ser Jaime had gone out to deal with them the night before ... well , with what we thought was them .  
We were told the Stark host was east of the Green Fork , marching south ... '' `` And your outriders ? ''  
Marq Piper 's work , we thought .  
Tell him you hope that four eyes might see better than two ... and if not , the man after him will have six . ''  
Lord Tywin Lannister turned his face to study Ser Gregor .  
Tyrion saw a glimmer of gold as the light shone off his father 's pupils , but he could not have said whether the look was one of approval or disgust .  
Lord Tywin was oft quiet in council , preferring to listen before he spoke , a habit Tyrion himself tried to emulate .  
`` You said they came at night , '' Ser Kevan prompted .  
When we heard the fighting and saw the tents being fired , Lord Brax led us to the rafts and we tried to pole across , but the current pushed us downstream and the Tullys started flinging rocks at us with the catapults on their walls .  
I saw one raft smashed to kindling and three others overturned , men swept into the river and drowned ... and those who did make it across found the Starks waiting for them on the riverbanks . ''  
Ser Flement Brax wore a silver-and-purple tabard and the look of a man who can not comprehend what he has just heard .  
He was a fool , Tyrion thought , swirling his cup and staring down into the winy depths .  
He wondered if Lord Brax had felt especially gallant as the weight of his steel pulled him under the black water .  
I saw Lord Umber 's giant-in-chains and the Mallister eagle , but it was the boy who led them , with a monstrous wolf running at his side .  
I was n't there to see , but it 's said the beast killed four men and ripped apart a dozen horses .  
Our spearmen formed up a shieldwall and held against their first charge , but when the Tullys saw them engaged , they opened the gates of Riverrun and Tytos Blackwood led a sortie across the drawbridge and took them in the rear . ''  
`` Gods save us , '' Lord Lefford swore .  
`` Greatjon Umber fired the siege towers we were building , and Lord Blackwood found Ser Edmure Tully in chains among the other captives , and made off with them all .  
He retreated in good order when he saw that the other camps were lost , with two thousand spears and as many bowmen , but the Tyroshi sellsword who led his freeriders struck his banners and went over to the foe . ''  
`` I warned Jaime not to trust that one .  
Lord Tywin wove his fingers together under his chin .  
Only his eyes moved as he listened .  
His bristling golden side-whiskers framed a face so still it might have been a mask , but Tyrion could see tiny beads of sweat dappling his father 's shaven head .  
Ser Addarn Marbrand said , `` I am sure we are all grateful to you for pointing out the obvious , Ser Harys .  
They can march on Casterly Rock if they so choose , and what 's to stop them ?  
Tyrion swirled his wine thoughtfully , took a deep draft , and hurled his empty cup to the floor , where it shattered into a thousand pieces .  
My sweet nephew broke it for good and all when he decided to ornament the Red Keep with Lord Eddard 's head .  
He 's winning ... or had n't you noticed ? ''  
`` Unless they trade three-for-one , we still come out light on those scales , '' Tyrion said acidly .  
`` I had heard that Queen Cersei has the Hand 's daughters , '' Lefford said hopefully .  
`` If we give the lad his sisters back ... '' Ser Addam snorted disdainfully .  
`` Then we must ransom Ser Jaime , whatever it costs , '' Lord Lefford said .  
`` if we ask for a truce , they will think us weak , '' Ser Addarn argued .  
`` They have my son , `` he said once more , in a voice that cut through the babble like a sword through suet .  
Ever the soul of obedience , Tyrion rose to depart with the rest , but his father gave him a look .  
`` You have the right of it about Stark .  
Alive , we might have used Lord Eddard to forge a peace with Winterfell and Riverrun , a peace that would have given us the time we need to deal with Robert 's brothers .  
`` I suppose we ought to be grateful that he has not yet married a whore . ''  
Tyrion sipped at his wine , wondering how Lord Tywin would look if he flung the cup in his face .  
`` It would seem we have a new king . ''  
Renly Baratheon wed Margaery Tyrell at Highgarden this fortnight past , and now he has claimed the crown .  
`` My daughter commands us to ride for King 's Landing at once , to defend the Red Keep against King Renly and the Knight of Flowers . ''  
`` How is King Joffrey taking the news ? ''  
`` Cersei has not seen fit to tell him yet , '' Lord Tywin said .  
`` She fears he might insist on marching against Renly himself . ''  
`` You do n't plan to give him this one , I hope ? ''  
`` If he takes the Watch , he 'll leave the city undefended , '' Ser Kevan said .  
`` I had thought you were the one made for motley , Tyrion , but it would appear that I was wrong . ''  
`` I have felt from the beginning that Stannis was a greater danger than all the others combined .  
Oh , Varys hears his whispers .  
Robb Stark sits to the west , so we can not retreat to Lannisport and the Rock unless we choose to give battle .  
Jaime is taken , and his army for all purposes has ceased to exist .  
Thoros of Myr and Beric Dondarrion continue to plague our foraging parties .  
To our east we have the Arryns , Stannis Baratheon sits on Dragonstone , and in the south Highgarden and Storm 's End are calling their banners . ''  
`` I had hoped you might have more to offer us than japes , Tyrion , '' Lord Tywin Lannister said .  
`` Robb Stark will have Edmure Tully and the lords of the Trident with him now .  
And with Roose Bolton behind us ... Tywin , if we remain here , I fear we might be caught between three armies . ''  
We must finish our business with young Lord Stark before Renly Baratheon can march from Highgarden .  
He is a wary man , and we made him warier on the Green Fork .  
Kevan , I want Ser Addam 's outriders to screen our movements .  
Give him as many men as he requires , and send them out in groups of four .  
`` Unleash Ser Gregor and send him before us with his reavers .  
Tell them I want to see the riverlands afire from the Gods Eye to the Red Fork . ''  
When they were alone , Lord Tywin glanced at Tyrion .  
Tell them they may ride with Vargo Hoat and plunder as they like-goods , stock , women , they may take what they want and burn the rest . ''  
Uncouth and unruly they might be , yet the wildlings were his , and he trusted them more than any of his father 's men .  
He reached for his wine , and considered for a moment as he sipped .  
`` Let her say what she likes .  
Her son needs to be taken in hand before he ruins us all .  
What sort of counsel are they giving Joffrey when he lurches from one folly to the next ?  
Not that he will ever set foot inside it , if I have a say .  
I am told he took a bloody spear for his sigil .  
His father had not raised his voice , yet Tyrion could see the anger in the gold of his eyes .  
Yes , the man was old , but the name of Barristan the Bold still has meaning in the realm .  
He lent honor to any man he served .  
You feed your dog bones under the table , you do not seat him beside you on the high bench . ''  
And if these councillors are playing us false ... '' Tyrion knew .  
`` I see you have taken a few lessons from me . ''  
He finished his wine and set the cup aside , thoughtful .  
he asked , cocking his head to one side .  
You have given him up for lost , he thought .  
You bloody bastard , you think Jaime 's good as dead , so I 'm all you have left .  
Tyrion wanted to slap him , to spit in his face , to draw his dagger and cut the heart out of him and see if it was made of old hard gold , the way the smallfolks said .  
Finally he climbed the steps to his cozy garret beneath the bell tower .  
The innkeep 's body turned slowly on its rope whenever the night wind gusted .  
Shae murmured sleepily and rolled toward him when he sat on the edge of the featherbed .  
He slid his hand under the blanket and cupped a soft breast , and her eyes opened .  
When he felt her nipple stiffen , Tyrion kissed her .  
`` I have a mind to take you to King 's Landing , sweetling , '' he whispered .  
JON The mare whickered softly as Jon Snow tightened the cinch .  
He strapped his roll to the saddle , his scarred fingers stiff and clumsy .  
`` Move aside , Sam , or I 'll ride you down . ''  
Jon put his spurs to horseflesh , and the mare bolted for the door .  
For an instant Sam stood his ground , his face as round and pale as the moon behind him , his mouth a widening O of surprise .  
At the last moment , when they were almost on him , he jumped aside as Jon had known he would , stumbled , and fell .  
Castle Black was silent and still as he rode out , with Ghost racing at his side .  
Men watched from the Wall behind him , he knew , but their eyes were turned north , not south .  
No one would see him go , no one but Sam Tarly , struggling back to his feet in the dust of the old stables .  
He hoped Sam had n't hurt himself , falling like that .  
He flexed his burned hand as he rode , opening and closing the scarred fingers .  
They still pained him , but it felt good to have the wrappings off .  
Moonlight silvered the hills as he followed the twisting ribbon of the kingsroad .  
He needed to get as far from the Wall as he could before they realized he was gone .  
The Old Bear was accustomed to rise at first light , so Jon had until dawn to put as many leagues as he could between him and the Wall ... if Sam Tarly did not betray him .  
The fat boy was dutiful and easily frightened , but he loved Jon like a brother .  
If questioned , Sam would doubtless tell them the truth , but Jon could not imagine him braving the guards in front of the Mng 's Tower to wake Mormont from sleep .  
When Jon did not appear to fetch the Old Bear 's breakfast from the kitchen , they 'd look in his cell and find Longclaw on the bed .  
It had been hard to abandon it , but Jon was not so lost to honor as to take it with him .  
Even Jorah Mormont had not done that , when he fled in disgrace .  
Jon felt bad when he thought of the old man .  
He knew his desertion would be salt in the still-raw wound of his son 's disgrace .  
No matter what he did , Jon felt as though he were betraying someone .  
But the Starks worshiped the old gods , the nameless gods , and if the heart trees heard , they did not speak .  
When the last lights of Castle Black vanished behind him , Jon slowed his mare to a walk .  
There were holdfasts and farming villages along the road south where he might be able to trade the mare for a fresh mount when he needed one , but not if she were injured or blown .  
Any bit of it could mean his death if he were taken .  
Once Maester Aemon 's ravens took flight , Jon knew he would find no safe haven .  
Bran might want to let him in , but Maester Luwin had better sense .  
He would bar the gates and send Jon away , as he should .  
Yet he saw the castle clear in his mind 's eye , as if he had left it only yesterday ; the towering granite walls , the Great Hall with its smells of smoke and dog and roasting meat , his father 's solar , the turret room where he had slept .  
Part of him wanted nothing so much as to hear Bran laugh again , to sup on one of Gage 's beef-and-bacon pies , to listen to Old Nan tell her tales of the children of the forest and Florian the Fool .  
But he had not left the Wall for that ; he had left because he was after all his father 's son , and Robb 's brother .  
Three times the old man had chosen , and three times he had chosen honor , but that was him .  
Yet he understood what the old man had meant , about the pain of choosing ; he understood that all too well .  
Wherever he might go throughout the Seven Kingdoms , he would need to live a lie , lest every man 's hand be raised against him .  
But it made no matter , so long as he lived long enough to take his place by his brother 's side and help avenge his father .  
He remembered Robb as he had last seen him , standing in the yard with snow melting in his auburn hair .  
He tried to imagine the look on Robb 's face when he revealed himself .  
His brother would shake his head and smile , and he 'd say ... he 'd say ... He could not see the smile .  
Hard as he tried , he could not see it .  
He found himself thinking of the deserter his father had beheaded the day they 'd found the direwolves .  
Bran 's eyes had been wide as saucers , and Jon had to remind him to keep his pony in hand .  
He remembered the look on Father 's face when Theon Greyjoy brought forth Ice , the spray of blood on the snow , the way Theon had kicked the head when it came rolling at his feet .  
He wondered what Lord Eddard might have done if the deserter had been his brother Benjen instead of that ragged stranger .  
He had to , or else ... It did not bear thinking about .  
Jon put his heels into his horse and broke into a gallop , racing down the kingsroad , as if to outrun his doubts .  
If he must perish , let it be with a sword in his hand , fighting his father 's killers .  
Let them say that Eddard Stark had fathered four sons , not three .  
Man and horse alike lowered their heads as he asked the mare for more speed .  
He vanished behind , but Jon knew he would follow , at his own pace .  
A dog barked as he rode through , and he heard a mule 's raucous haw from the stable , but otherwise the village was still .  
Not until he was well beyond the village did Jon slow again .  
Jon squatted and brought his hands together , cupping the runoff between his fingers .  
He drank , and splashed some on his face , until his cheeks tingled .  
I am doing the right thing , he told himself , so why do I feel so bad ?  
The horse was well lathered , so Jon took the lead and walked her for a while .  
He cupped his hands around his mouth .  
Frowning , Jon continued on his way .  
Jon wanted to mount up and ride again , but he was concerned about his missing wolf .  
`` Ghost , `` he called again .  
Nothing in these woods could trouble a direwolf , even a half-grown direwolf , unless ... no , Ghost was too smart to attack a bear , and if there was a wolf pack anywhere close Jon would have surely heard them howling .  
He should eat , he decided .  
There was no danger yet ; Castle Black still slept .  
Jon sat under the trees and ate his biscuit and cheese while his mare grazed along the kingsroad .  
He was down to the core when he heard the sounds : horses , and from the north .  
No , they were too close , they 'd hear him for a certainty , and if they were from Castle Black ... He led the mare off the road , behind a thick stand of grey-green sentinels .  
Likely as not , they were only smallfolk from Mole 's Town , farmers on their way to their fields , although what they were doing out in the middle of the night ... He listened to the sound of hooves growing steadily louder as they trotted briskly down the kingsroad .  
If you did n't fall off your horse and break your neck , you 'd get lost and wind up back at the Wall when the sun came up .  
`` You know where Id be if it was me ?  
`` I thought I heard something . ''  
`` You ca n't hear yourself fart . ''  
Jon found himself holding his breath .  
Sam , he thought .  
He had n't gone to the Old Bear , but he had n't gone to bed either , he 'd woken the other boys .  
Come dawn , if they were not in their beds , they 'd be named deserters too .  
What did they think they were doing ?  
`` A sound , I thought it might have been a horse but ... '' `` There 's nothing here . ''  
`` I heard it too ! ''  
He turned the mare 's head to slide off through the trees , but they were on him before he had gone ten feet .  
Jon wheeled around to face them , drawing his sword .  
I do n't wish to hurt you , but I will if I have to . ''  
`` We want to take you back where you belong , '' Pyp said .  
`` They 'll cut off your head if they catch you , you know , '' Toad put in with a nervous laugh .  
I said the words and I meant them . ''  
It 's war , my brother Robb is fighting in the riverlands- '' `` We know , '' said Pyp solemnly .  
`` Sam told us everything . ''  
`` Now my watch begins , you said it .  
It shall not end until my death. `` `` I shall live and die at my post , `` Grenn added , nodding .  
`` You do n't have to tell me the words , I know them as well as you do . ''  
Why could n't they let him go in peace ?  
`` I am the sword in the darkness , `` Halder intoned .  
Jon cursed them all to their faces .  
Pyp spurred his horse closer , reciting , `` I am the fire that Burns against the cold , the light that brings the dawn , the hom that wakes the sleepers , the shield that guards the realms of men. `` `` Stay back , '' Jon warned him , brandishing his sword .  
`` I mean it , Pyp . ''  
They were n't even wearing armor , he could cut them to pieces if he had to .  
`` I pledge my life and honor to the Night 's Watch. `` Jon kicked his mare , spinning her in a circle .  
The boys were all around him now , closing from every side .  
`` For this night Halder trotted in from the left ... ... and all the nights to come , `` finished Pyp .  
Jon lifted his sword ... and lowered it , helpless .  
`` Do we have to bind your hands , or will you give us your word you 'll ride back peaceful ? ''  
Ghost moved out from under the trees and Jon glared at him .  
Dawn was still an hour off when Jon glimpsed the towers of Castle Black ahead of them , dark against the pale immensity of the Wall .  
They could take him back , Jon told himself , but they could not make him stay .  
He would bide his time , make them think he was content to remain here ... and then , when they had grown lax , he would be off again .  
`` I ... I 'm glad they found you , Jon . ''  
`` Give us a hand bedding down the horses , Sam , '' the small boy said .  
`` We have a long day before us , and no sleep to face it on , thanks to Lord Snow . ''  
When day broke , Jon walked to the kitchens as he did every dawn .  
Three-Finger Hobb said nothing as he gave him the Old Bear 's breakfast .  
He found Mormont at the window seat , writing .  
His raven was walking back and forth across his shoulders , muttering , `` Corn , corn , corn. `` The bird shrieked when Jon entered .  
Hobb had given him a lemon , still cold from the Wall .  
Jon crushed it in his fist .  
Mormont drank lemon in his beer every day , and claimed that was why he still had his own teeth .  
`` Doubtless you loved your father , '' Mormont said when Jon brought him his horn .  
Remember when I told you that ? ''  
He did not care to talk of his father 's death , not even to Mormont .  
`` Do you think they chose me Lord Commander of the Night 's Watch because I 'm dumb as a stump , Snow ?  
Aemon told me you 'd go .  
I told him you 'd be back .  
I know my men ... and my boys too .  
Honor set you on the kingsroad ... and honor brought you back . ''  
`` Did I say it was your honor ? ''  
Mormont inspected his plate .  
Did you expect me to do nothing ? ''  
`` If truth be told , we expected you to do just as you did . ''  
`` I ordered a watch kept over you. , You were seen leaving .  
He told himself that he would die well ; that much he could do , at the least .  
If we beheaded every boy who rode to Mole 's Town in the night , only ghosts would guard the Wall .  
Do you think you can bring him back ? ''  
`` We 've seen the dead come back , you and me , and it 's not something I care to see again . ''  
Why do you imagine that they need your help ?  
Pushing his beak through the hole , he pulled out morsels of white and yoke .  
Truth be told , I can hardly stand to be around the wretched woman , but that does not mean my love for her is any less than the love you bear your half sisters . ''  
Frowning , Mormont took his last egg and squeezed it in his fist until the shell crunched .  
Be that as it may , I 'd still grieve if she were slain , yet you do n't see me running off .  
I said the words , just as you did .  
I have no place , Jon wanted to say , I 'm a bastard , I have no rights , no name , no mother , and now not even a father .  
Rangers from the Shadow Tower have found whole villages abandoned , and at night Ser Denys says they see fires in the mountains , huge blazes that burn from dusk till dawn .  
Quorin Halfhand took a captive in the depths of the Gorge , and the man swears that Mance Rayder is massing all his people in some new , secret stronghold he 's found , to what end the gods only know .  
Do you think your uncle Benjen was the only ranger we 've lost this past year ? ''  
`` Ben Jen. , `` the raven squawked , bobbing its head , bits of egg dribbling from its beak .  
Jon chewed his lip .  
`` War , war , war , war , `` it sang .  
`` Gods save us , boy , you 're not blind and you 're not stupid .  
When dead men come hunting in the night , do you think it matters who sits the Iron Throne ? ''  
`` All I know is that the blood of the First Men flows in the veins of the Starks .  
The First Men built the Wall , and it 's said they remember things otherwise forgotten .  
And that beast of yours ... he led us to the wights , warned you of the dead man on the steps .  
Ser Jaremy would doubtless call that happenstance , yet Ser Jaremy is dead and I 'm not . ''  
`` I think you were meant to be here , and I want you and that wolf of yours with us when we go beyond the Wall . ''  
`` You heard me .  
I mean to find Ben Stark , alive or dead . ''  
I mean to command them myself . ''  
He pointed his dagger at Jon 's chest .  
`` By custom , the Lord Commander 's steward is his squire as well ... but I do not care to wake every dawn wondering if you 've run off again .  
So I will have an answer from you , Lord Snow , and I will have it now .  
Robb , Arya , Bran ... forgive me , I can not help you .  
I swear it .  
It seemed a thousand years ago that Catelyn Stark had carried her infant son out of Riverrun , crossing the Tumblestone in a small boat to begin their journey north to Winterfell .  
And it was across the Tumblestone that they came home now , though the boy wore plate and mail in place of swaddling clothes .  
Robb sat in the bow with Grey Wind , his hand resting on his direwolf s head as the rowers pulled at their oars .  
It was a stirring sight , yet it did not lift her heart .  
She wondered if indeed her heart would ever lift again .  
Oh , Ned ... Below the Wheel Tower , they made a wide turn and knifed through the churning water .  
The wide arch of the Water Gate came into view , and she heard the creak of heavy chains as the great iron portcullis was winched upward .  
It rose slowly as they approached , and Catelyn saw that the lower half of it was red with rust .  
It had been Lord Hos who led the sortie that plucked her brother from the Lannister camp .  
When Grey Wind bounded out , one of them dropped his pole and lurched back , stumbling and sitting down abruptly in the river .  
Theon Greyjoy vaulted over the side of the boat and lifted Catelyn by the waist , setting her on a dry step above him as water lapped around his boots .  
He had deep blue eyes and a mouth made for smiles , but he was not smiling now .  
His neck was bandaged where he had taken a wound .  
Catelyn hugged him fiercely .  
`` When we heard about Lord Eddard ... the Lannisters will pay , I swear it , you will have your vengeance . ''  
She could not think about Ned now .  
`` He awaits you in his solar , '' Edmure said .  
`` He instructed me to bring you to him at once . ''  
Edmure escorted her up the water stair and across the lower bailey , where Petyr Baelish and Brandon Stark had once crossed swords for her favor .  
As they pushed through a door between two guardsmen in fish- crest helms , she asked , `` How bad is he ? ''  
dreading the answer even as she said the words .  
`` He will not be with us long , the maesters say .  
A blind rage filled her , a rage at all the world ; at her brother Edmure and her sister Lysa , at the Lannisters , at the maesters , at Ned and her father and the monstrous gods who would take them both away from her .  
`` He forbade it .  
He did not want his enemies to know that he was dying .  
With the realm so troubled , he feared that if the Lannisters suspected how frail he was ... '' `` ... they might attack ? ''  
It was your doing , yours , a voice whispered inside her .  
If you had not taken it upon yourself to seize the dwarf ... They climbed the spiral stair in silence .  
`` Father , see who I 've brought .  
Cat has come to see you ... `` Hoster Tully had always been a big man ; tall and broad in his youth , portly as he grew older .  
Now he seemed shrunken , the muscle and meat melted off his bones .  
The last time Catelyn had seen him , his hair and beard had been brown , well streaked with grey .  
`` I watched for you ... '' `` I shall leave you to talk , '' her brother said , kissing their lord father gently on the brow before he withdrew .  
It was a big hand , but fleshless now , the bones moving loosely under the skin , all the strength gone from it .  
Maester Vyman makes me dreamwine , milk of the poppy ... I sleep a lot ... but I wanted to be awake to see you , when you came .  
I was afraid ... when the Lannisters took your brother , the camps all around us ... was afraid I would go , before I could see you again ... I was afraid ... '' `` I 'm here , Father , '' she said .  
He 'll want to see you too . ''  
`` He had my eyes , I remember . ''  
And we 've brought you Jaime Lannister , in irons .  
Last night , when it began , I told them ... had to see .  
Ah , that was beautiful ... the torches came in a wave , I could hear the cries floating across the river .  
`` Gods be good , your sister ... did she come as well ? ''  
`` She 's with her son , in the Eyrie . ''  
`` Lord Robert now , poor Arryn 's gone ... I remember ... why did she not come with you ? ''  
Cat 's child ... he had my eyes , I remember .  
`` Has he wed yet ?  
`` He has not wed. You know that , Father .  
`` I told him ... commanded him .  
Walder Frey ... any of three , he said ... Has he wed ?  
I would not be here now , if Ser Brynden had not helped us . ''  
He leaned back and closed his eyes , inutterably weary .  
Send him up later , the Blackfish ... '' Catelyn kissed him gently , smoothed his hair , and left him there in the shade of his keep , with his rivers flowing beneath .  
When she returned to the lower bailey , Ser Brynden Tully stood on the water stairs with wet boots , talking with the captain of Riverrun 's guards .  
He ran his fingers through his thick grey hair .  
`` Will he see me ? ''  
Hoster will be chiding me about the Redwyne girl even as we light his funeral pyre , damn his bones . ''  
Catelyn smiled , knowing it was true .  
`` I do not see Robb . ''  
`` He went with Greyjoy to the hall , I believe . ''  
Theon Greyjoy was seated on a bench in Riverrun 's Great Hall , enjoying a horn of ale and regaling her father 's garrison with an account of the slaughter in the Whispering Wood .  
The Lannisters must have thought the Others themselves were on them when that wolf of Robb 's got in among them .  
I saw him tear one man 's arm from his shoulder , and their horses went mad at the scent of him .  
`` Lord Robb went to visit the godswood , my lady ... '' It was what Ned would have done .  
She asked herself what gods she kept these days , and could not find an answer .  
As she stood there , all the memories came flooding back to her .  
Her father had taught her to ride amongst these trees , and that was the elm that Edmure had fallen from when he broke his arm , and over there , beneath that bower , she and Lysa had played at kissing with Petyr .  
It came back to her so vividly she could almost feel his sweaty fingers on her shoulders and taste the mint on his breath .  
`` He tried to put his tongue in my mouth , '' Catelyn had confessed to her sister afterward , when they were alone .  
`` He did with me too , '' Lysa had whispered , shy and breathless .  
`` I liked it . ''  
Robb got to his feet slowly and sheathed his sword , and Catelyn found herself wondering whether her son had ever kissed a girl in the godswood .  
She had seen Jeyne Poole giving him moist-eyed glances , and some of the serving girls , even ones as old as eighteen ... he had ridden in battle and killed men with a sword , surely he had been kissed .  
`` Ser Edmure told me .  
I am sorry , Mother ... for Lord Hoster and for you .  
Renly Baratheon has claimed his brother 's crown . ''  
`` I had thought , surely it would be Lord Stannis ... '' `` So did we all , my lady , '' Galbart Glover said .  
Word of the victory at Riverrun had spread to the fugitive lords of the Trident , drawing them back .  
Ser Marq Piper was with him , and they brought a Darry , Ser Raymun 's son , a lad no older than Bran .  
Lord Jonos Bracken arrived from the ruins of Stone Hedge , glowering and blustering , and took a seat as far from Tytos Blackwood as the tables would permit .  
The northern lords sat opposite , with Catelyn and Robb facing her brother across the tables .  
The Greatjon sat at Robb 's left hand , and then Theon Greyjoy ; Galbart Glover and Lady Mormont were to the right of Catelyn .  
He had left two sons dead in the Whispering Wood , and there was no word of the third , his eldest , who had led the Karstark spears against Tywin Lannister on the Green Fork .  
Catelyn sat and listened to it all .  
Ser Helman Tallhart and Walder Frey still held the Twins .  
Many of the lords bannermen wanted to march on Harrenhal at once , to meet Lord Tywin and end Lannister power for all time .  
Young , hot-tempered Marq Piper urged a strike west at Casterly Rock instead .  
Riverrun sat athwart the Lannister supply lines , Jason Mallister pointed out ; let them bide their time , denying Lord Tywin fresh levies and provisions while they strengthened their defenses and rested their weary troops .  
What Blackwood urged , Bracken opposed , as ever ; Lord Jonos Bracken rose to insist they ought pledge their fealty to King Renly , and move south to join their might to his .  
`` I do not know that it makes Renly king .  
Were he to die , and I mean to see that he does , he has a younger brother .  
Bran ca n't be Lord of Winterfell before me , and Renly ca n't be king before Lord Stannis . ''  
If Winterfell and Riverrun add their strength to his , he will have five of the seven great houses behind him .  
My lords , within the year , we will have all their heads on pikes , the queen and the boy king , Lord Tywin , the Imp , the Kingslayer , Ser Kevan , all of them !  
That is what we shall win if we join with King Renly .  
What does Lord Stannis have against that , that we should cast it all aside ? ''  
Catelyn thought he sounded eerily like his father as he said it .  
`` So you mean us to declare for Stannis ? ''  
`` I prayed to know what to do , but the gods did not answer .  
The Lannisters killed my father for a traitor , and we know that was a lie , but if Joffrey is the lawful king and we fight against him , we will be traitors . ''  
When they are done fighting , we can bend our knees to the victor , or oppose him , as we choose .  
`` Begging for a truce will make us seem weak , '' declared Lady Mormont .  
The lords looked at her , but it was Robb 's eyes she felt , his and his alone .  
He unsheathed his longsword and laid it on the table before him , the bright steel on the rough wood .  
The Greatjon bellowed his approval , and other men added their voices , shouting and drawing swords and pounding their fists on the table .  
Catelyn waited until they had quieted .  
Do you think I love him any less than you ? ''  
Her voice almost broke with her grief , but Catelyn took a long breath and steadied herself .  
`` Robb , if that sword could bring him back , I should never let you sheathe it until Ned stood at my side once more ... but he is gone , and hundred Whispering Woods will not change that .  
`` Perhaps I do not understand tactics and strategy ... but I understand futility .  
We went to war when Lannister armies were ravaging the riverlands , and Ned was a prisoner , falsely accused of treason .  
We fought to defend ourselves , and to win my lord 's freedom .  
I want my daughters back , and the queen holds them still .  
If I must trade our four Lannisters for their two Starks , I will call that a bargain and thank the gods .  
I want you safe , Robb , ruling at Winterfell from your father 's seat .  
I want you to live your life , to kiss a girl and wed a woman and father a son .  
`` What did Torrhen and my Eddard die for , if I am to return to Karhold with nothing but their bones ? ''  
`` Gregor Clegane laid waste to my fields , slaughtered my smallfolk , and left Stone Hedge a smoking ruin .  
Am I now to bend the knee to the ones who sent him ?  
What have we fought for , if we are to put all back as it was before ? ''  
`` And if we do make peace with King Joffrey , are we not then traitors to King Renly ?  
She had come so close , she thought .  
She looked at her son , watched him as he listened to the lords debate , frowning , troubled , yet wedded to his war .  
He had pledged himself to marry a daughter of Walder Frey , but she saw his true bride plain before her now : the sword he had laid on the table .  
Catelyn was thinking of her girls , wondering if she would ever see them again , when the Greatjon lurched to his feet .  
He spat. `` Renly Baratheon is nothing to me , nor Stannis neither .  
What do they know of the Wall or the wolfswood or the barrows of the First Men ?  
The Others take the Lannisters too , I 've had a bellyful of them . ''  
`` Why should n't we rule ourselves again ?  
And he knelt , and laid his sword at her son 's feet .  
He eased his longsword from its scabbard .  
And the river lords were rising too , Blackwood and Bracken and Mallister , houses who had never been ruled from Winterfell , yet Catelyn watched them rise and draw their blades , bending their knees and shouting the old words that had not been heard in the realm for more than three hundred years , since Aegon the Dragon had come to make the Seven Kingdoms one ... yet now were heard again , ringing from the timbers of her father 's hall : `` The King in the North ! ''  
In the center of the square , Aggo fed him a withered apple and dropped him in an instant with an axe blow between the eyes .  
Bound hand and foot , Mirri Maz Duur watched from the dust with disquiet in her black eyes .  
You call me maegi as if it were a curse , but all it means is wise .  
He took his whip to her , and after that the godswife kept silent .  
On the platform they piled Khal Drogo 's treasures : his great tent , his painted vests , his saddles and harness , the whip his father had given him when he came to manhood , the arakh he had used to slay Khal Ogo and his son , a mighty dragonbone bow .  
Aggo would have added the weapons Drogo 's bloodriders had given Dany for bride gifts as well , but she forbade it .  
Ser Jorah Mormont drew her aside as the sun was creeping toward its zenith .  
`` Why do you call me that ? ''  
`` My brother Viserys was your king , was he not ? ''  
I am his heir , the last blood of House Targaryen .  
I am only a knight , and I have nothing to offer you but exile , but I beg you , hear me .  
I promise you , no man shall take you to Vaes Dothrak unless you wish to go .  
Yi Ti , Oarth , the Jade Sea , Asshai by the Shadow .  
We will see all the wonders yet unseen , and drink what wines the gods see fit to serve us .  
I know what you intend .  
She touched his face , fondly , sadly .  
`` I understand that you loved him , '' Ser Jorah said in a voice thick with despair .  
`` I loved my lady wife once , yet I did not die with her .  
You are my queen , my sword is yours , but do not ask me to stand aside as you climb on Drogo 's pyre .  
I will not watch you burn . ''  
Dany kissed him lightly on his broad forehead .  
You swear it , my queen ? ''  
`` I swear it , '' she said in the Common Tongue of the Seven Kingdoms that by rights were hers .  
The sun had begun to lower toward the west by the time they were done .  
Dany called the Dothraki around her .  
How many had Aegon started with ?  
To each of you I say , give me your hands and your hearts , and there will always be a place for you . ''  
`` Jhogo , to you I give the silver-handled whip that was my bride gift , and name you ko , and ask your oath , that you will live and die as blood of my blood , riding at my side to keep me safe from harm . ''  
Jhogo took the whip from her hands , but his face was confused .  
`` Khaleesi , `` he said hesitantly , '' this is not done .  
If I look back I am lost .  
`` I name you ko , and ask your oath , that you should live and die as blood of my blood , riding at my side to keep me safe from harm . ''  
And you too I name my ko , and ask that you live and die as blood of my blood , riding at my side to keep me safe from harm . ''  
`` I shall ride at your side to Vaes Dothrak beneath the Mother of Mountains , and keep you safe from harm until you take your place with the crones of the dosh khaleen .  
She nodded , as calmly as if she had not heard his answer , and turned to the last of her champions .  
`` You have it , my queen , '' Ser Jorah said , kneeling to lay his sword at her feet .  
`` I vow to serve you , to obey you , to die for you if need be . ''  
I pray you never regret the giving of it . ''  
Dany lifted him to his feet .  
Stretching on her toes to reach his lips , she kissed the knight gently and said , `` You are the first of my Queensguard . ''  
She could feel the eyes of the khalasar on her as she entered her tent .  
They thought her mad , Dany realized .  
If I look back I am lost .  
Her bath was scalding hot when Irri helped her into the tub , but Dany did not flinch or cry aloud .  
It made her feel clean .  
Jhiqui had scented the water with the oils she had found in the market in Vaes Dothrak ; the steam rose moist and fragrant .  
Doreah washed her hair and combed it out , working loose the mats and tangles .  
Irri scrubbed her back .  
Dany closed her eyes and let the smell and the warmth enfold her .  
She shuddered when it entered her , and her pain and stiffness seemed to dissolve .  
Irri and Jhiqui fanned her dry , while Doreah brushed her hair until it fell like a river of liquid silver down her back .  
Irri 's finger felt as light and cool as a lover 's kiss as it slid softly up between her lips .  
Afterward , Dany sent them all away , so she might prepare Khal Drogo for his final ride into the night lands .  
She washed his body clean and brushed and oiled his hair , running her fingers through it for the last time , feeling the weight of it , remembering the first time she had touched it , the night of their wedding ride .  
She buried her face in it and inhaled the dark fragrance of the oils .  
Forgive me , sun of my life , she thought .  
Forgive me for all I have done and all I must do .  
I paid the price , my star , but it was too high , too high ... Dany braided his hair and slid the silver rings onto his mustache and hung his bells one by one .  
Bells so his enemies would hear him coming and grow weak with fear .  
She dressed him in horsehair leggings and high boots , buckling a belt heavy with gold and silver medallions about his waist .  
Over his scarred chest she slipped a painted vest , old and faded , the one Drogo had loved best .  
For herself she chose loose sandsilk trousers , sandals that laced halfway up her legs , and a vest like Drogo 's .  
The sun was going down when she called them back to carry his body to the pyre .  
The Dothraki watched in silence as Jhogo and Aggo bore him from the tent .  
They laid him down on his cushions and silks , his head toward the Mother of Mountains far to the northeast .  
Something in her voice made them run .  
Ser Jorah took her arm .  
When she kissed him for the last time , Dany could taste the sweetness of the oil on his lips .  
As she climbed down off the pyre , she noticed Mirri Maz Duur watching her .  
`` To the ... my queen , no , hear me ... '' `` Do as I say . ''  
Still he hesitated , until her anger flared .  
`` You swore to obey me , whatever might come .  
The godswife did not cry out as they dragged her to Khal Drogo 's pyre and staked her down amidst his treasures .  
`` I thank you , Mirri Maz Duur , '' she said , `` for the lessons you have taught me . ''  
I remember what you told me .  
Mirri Maz Duur opened her mouth , but made no reply .  
As she stepped away , Dany saw that the contempt was gone from the maegi 's flat black eyes ; in its place was something that might have been fear .  
When a horselord dies , his horse is slain with him , so he might ride proud into the night lands .  
Jhogo spied it first .  
Dany looked and saw it , low in the east .  
Dany took the torch from Aggo 's hand and thrust it between the logs .  
The dusk shimmered as the air itself seemed to liquefy from the heat .  
Her song grew louder , shriller ... then she gasped , again and again , and her song became a shuddering wail , thin and high and full of agony .  
And now the flames reached her Drogo , and now they were all around him .  
Dany 's lips parted and she found herself holding her breath .  
Part of her wanted to go to him as Ser Jorah had feared , to rush into the flames to beg for his forgiveness and take him inside her one last time , the fire melting the flesh from their bones until they were as one , forever .  
As the smoke grew thicker , the Dothraki backed away , coughing .  
The heat beat at the air with great red wings , driving the Dothraki back , driving off even Mormont , but Dany stood her ground .  
She had sensed the truth of it long ago , Dany thought as she took a step closer to the conflagration , but the brazier had not been hot enough .  
Sweat ran down her thighs and between her breasts and in rivulets over her cheeks , where tears had once run .  
Ser Jorah was shouting behind her , but he did not matter anymore , only the fire mattered .  
The flames were so beautiful , the loveliest things she had ever seen , each one a sorcerer robed in yellow and orange and scarlet , swirling long smoky cloaks .  
She saw a horse , a great grey stallion limned in smoke , its flowing mane a nimbus of blue flame .  
Her vest had begun to smolder , so Dany shrugged it off and let it fall to the ground .  
Now , she thought , now , and for an instant she glimpsed Khal Drogo before her , mounted on his smoky stallion , a flaming lash in his hand .  
He smiled , and the whip snaked down at the pyre , hissing .  
The roaring filled the world , yet dimly through the firefall Dany heard women shriek and children cry out in wonder .  
And there came a second crack , loud and sharp as thunder , and the smoke stirred and whirled around her and the pyre shifted , the logs exploding as the fire touched their secret hearts .  
She heard the screams of frightened horses , and the voices of the Dothraki raised in shouts of fear and terror , and Ser Jorah calling her name and cursing .  
No , she wanted to shout to him , no , my good knight , do not fear.for me .  
I am Daenerys Stormborn , daughter of dragons , bride of dragons , mother of dragons , do n't you see ?  
Unafraid , Dany stepped forward into the firestorm , calling to her children .  
When the fire died at last and the ground became cool enough to walk upon , Ser Jorah Mormont found her amidst the ashes , surrounded by blackened logs and bits of glowing ember and the burnt bones of man and woman and stallion .  
Her arms cradled them close .  
When it saw Jorah , it raised its head and looked at him with eyes as red as coals .  
And after them came her handmaids , and then the others , all the Dothraki , men and women and children , and Dany had only to look at their eyes to know that they were hers now , today and tomorrow and forever , hers as they had never been Drogo 's .  
As Daenerys Targaryen rose to her feet , her black hissed , pale smoke venting from its mouth and nostrils .  
