She had been born a Tully , at Riverrun far to the south , on the Red Fork of the Trident .  
But she knew she would find her husband here tonight .  
Whenever he took a man 's life , afterward he would seek the quiet of the godswood .  
Catelyn had been anointed with the seven oils and named in the rainbow of light that filled the sept of Riverrun .  
Worship was for the sept. For her sake , Ned had built a small sept where she might sing to the seven faces of god , but the blood of the First Men still flowed in the veins of the Starks , and his own gods were the old ones , the nameless , faceless gods of the greenwood they shared with the vanished children of the forest .  
They had seen Brandon the Builder set the first stone , if the tales were true ; they had watched the castle 's granite walls rise around them .  
Here every castle had its godswood , and every godswood had its heart tree , and every heart tree its face .  
Catelyn found her husband beneath the weirwood , seated on a moss-covered stone .  
A thousand years of humus lay thick upon the godswood floor , swallowing the sound of her feet , but the red eyes of the weirwood seemed to follow her as she came .  
She could feel the eyes watching her , but she did her best to ignore them .  
The words gave her a chill , as they always did .  
He ran it lightly up the greatsword as he spoke , polishing the metal to a dark glow .  
`` I am always proud of Bran , '' Catelyn replied , watching the sword as he stroked it .  
Catelyn had no love for swords , but she could not deny that Ice had its own beauty .  
It had been forged in Valyria , before the Doom had come to the old Freehold , when the ironsmiths had worked their metal with spells as well as hammers .  
The name it bore was older still , a legacy from the age of heroes , when the Starks were Kings in the North .  
`` Ben writes that the strength of the Night 's Watch is down below a thousand .  
Ned lifted Ice , looked down the cool steel length of it .  
Ned saw the dread on her face .  
Maester Luwin will tell you they never lived at all .  
Catelyn took her husband 's hand .  
I did not wish to trouble you until you had cleansed yourself . ''  
There was no way to soften the blow , so she told him straight .  
His eyes found hers , and she could see how hard it took him , as she had known it would .  
In his youth , Ned had fostered at the Eyrie , and the childless Lord Arryn had become a second father to him and his fellow ward , Robert Baratheon .  
When the Mad King Aerys Targaryen had demanded their heads , the Lord of the Eyrie had raised his moon-and-falcon banners in revolt rather than give up those he had pledged to protect .  
And one day fifteen years ago , this second father had become a brother as well , as he and Ned stood together in the sept at Riverrun to wed two sisters , the daughters of Lord Hoster Tully .  
`` Jon ... '' he said .  
I saved it for you .  
Even Maester Pycelle was helpless , but he brought the milk of the poppy , so Jon did not linger long in pain . ''  
She could see the grief on his face , but even then he thought first of her .  
`` The message said only that they were well , and had returned to the Eyrie , '' Catelyn said .  
`` I wish they had gone to Riverrun instead .  
I know my sister .  
`` Your uncle waits in the Vale , does he not ?  
Jon named him Knight of the Gate , I 'd heard . ''  
It took Ned a moment to comprehend her words , but when the understanding came , the darkness left his eyes .  
Catelyn wished she could share his joy .  
Dread coiled within her like a snake , but she forced herself to smile at this man she loved , this man who put no faith in signs .  
`` I knew that would please you , '' she said .  
Ned rose and pulled her to her feet .  
`` Damnation , how many years has it been ?  
And he gives us no more notice than this ?  
The Lannisters of Casterly Rock had come late to Robert 's cause , when victory was all but certain , and he had never forgiven them .  
The youngest was still sucking at the Lannister woman 's teat the last time I saw him .  
Ned squeezed her hand .  
I shall send Jory south with an honor guard to meet them on the kingsroad and escort them back .  
