They set forth at daybreak to see a man beheaded , twenty in all , and Even Bran rode among them , nervous with excitement .  
Robb's thought he was a wildling , his sword sworn to Mance Rayder , the King beyond-the-Wall .  
He remembered the hearth tales Old Nan told them .  
But the man they found bound hand and foot to the holdfast wall awaiting the king 's justice was old and scrawny , not much taller than Robb .  
He had lost both ears and a finger to frostbite , and he dressed all in black , the same as a brother of the Night 's Watch , except that his furs were ragged and greasy .  
Robb and Jon Snow sat tall and still on their horses , with Bran between them on his pony , trying to seem older than seven , trying to pretend that he 'd seen all this before .  
His closely trimmed beard was shot with white , making him look older than his thirty-five years .  
He had a grim cast to his grey eyes this day , and he seemed not at all the man who would sit before the fire in the evening and talk softly of the age of heroes and the children of the forest .  
He had taken off Father 's face , Bran thought , and donned the face of Lord Stark of Winterfell .  
Lord Eddard Stark dismounted and his ward Theon Greyjoy brought forth the sword .  
He took hold of Ice with both hands and said , `` In the name of Robert of the House Baratheon , the First Men of his Name , King of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men , Lord of the Seven Kingdoms and Protector of the Realm , by the word of Eddard of the House Stark , Lord of Winterfell and Warden of the North , I do sentence you to die . ''  
He lifted the greatsword high above his head.Bran 's bastard brother Jon Snow moved closer .  
Bran kept his pony well in hand , and did not look away .  
The snows around the stump drank it eagerly , reddening as he watched .  
He laughed , put his boot on the head , and kicked it away .  
He put a hand on Bran 's shoulder , and Bran looked over at his bastard brother .  
It seemed colder on the long ride back to Winterfell , though the wind had died by then and the sun was higher in the sky .  
Jon 's eyes were a grey so dark they seemed almost black , but there was little they did not see .  
He was of an age with Robb , but they did not look alike .  
Robb cursed and followed , and they galloped off down the trail , Robb laughing and hooting , Jon silent and intent .  
He had seen the ragged man 's eyes , and he was thinking of them now .  
So deep in thought was he that he never heard the rest of the party until his father moved up to ride beside him .  
`` Robb says the man died bravely , but Jon says he was afraid . ''  
`` Do you understand why I did it ? ''  
The blood of the First Men still flows in the veins of the Starks , and we hold to the belief that the man who passes the sentence should swing the sword .  
`` Father , Bran , come quickly , see what Robb has found ! ''  
`` Come , let us see what mischief my sons have rooted out now . ''  
Jory and Bran and the rest came after .  
They found Robb on the riverbank north of the bridge , with Jon still mounted beside him .  
Greyjoy was laughing and joking as he rode .  
Bran heard the breath go out of him .  
he exclaimed , struggling to keep control of his horse as he reached for his sword .  
He would have spurred the pony faster , but his father made them dismount beside the bridge and approach on foot .  
By then Jon , Jory , and Theon Greyjoy had all dismounted as well .  
`` Bran 's heart was thumping in his chest as he pushed through a waist-high drift to his brothers' side .  
But it was the size of it that made him gasp .  
Theon Greyjoy said , `` There 's not been a direwolf sighted south of the Wall in two hundred years . ''  
Bran tore his eyes away from the monster .  
It nuzzled blindly against Robb 's chest as he cradled it , searching for milk among his leathers , making a sad little whimpery sound .  
Bran gave the pup a quick nervous stroke , then turned as Jon said , `` Here you go . ''  
`` I like it not . ''  
Snow crunched under his boots as he moved around the body .  
`` Do we know what killed her ? ''  
The men looked at the antler uneasily , and no one dared to speak .  
Even Bran could sense their fear , though he did not understand .  
`` I 'm surprised she lived long enough to whelp , '' he said .  
`` I 've heard tales ... maybe the bitch was already dead when the pups came . ''  
He could feel tears welling in his eyes , and he looked away .  
`` She 'll rip them apart when they try to nurse . ''  
It was strange to hear him call Father that , so formal .  
The count had come right only because Jon had omitted himself .  
`` I am no Stark , Father . ''  
Their lord father regarded Jon thoughtfully .  
`` I will soak a towel with warm milk , and give him suck from that . ''  
I will not have you wasting the servants ' time with this .  
And the gods help you if you neglect them , or brutalize them , or train them badly .  
It 's time we were back to Winterfell . ''  
It was not until they were mounted and on their way that Bran allowed himself to taste the sweet air of victory .  
Halfway across the bridge , Jon pulled up suddenly .  
They watched him dismount where the direwolf lay dead in the snow , watched him kneel .  
Bran thought it curious that this pup alone would have opened his eyes while the others were still blind .  
